LIFE IN
THE WORLD
berron, figuratively and literally, is a world
in three parts. Mythology suggests that
the three parts correspond to three great
dragons of legendary timesSiberys, the
Dragon Above; Belmead, the Dragon Below;
and Estium, the Dragon Between. This figurative interpretation
makes its way into religion, philosophy, and
folklore, and every culture has a version of the legend of
the creator dragons.
In literal terms, the Dragon Above corresponds to the
ring of eldershards that encircles the world high above
the equator. The Ring of Siberys can be seen in the southern
sky, appearing as a luminescent band of golden specks that
begins the winter equinox narrow and intense and becomes
wider and more diffuse as the year progresses. It can be seen
best at night but is visible during the day as well.
Belmead, the Dragon Below, comprises the underdark
oi the world, the labyrinthine caverns that snake beneath
the surface and fill the depths of the planet. Belmead consists
of twisting tunnels that open on vaults of varying
shapes and sizes. This subterranean expanse mirrors the
world above, a dark reflection of underground rivers, still
lakes, and fiery streams of molten lava.
Between the two, the surface of Estium stretches from
horizon to horizon, a patchwork of fields and forests, oceans
and mountains, deserts, swamps, jungles, tundra, and more.
Beneath a yellow sun, Estium's varied environments give
way one to another across each continent. Mountains rise,
valleys fall, and water surrounds the land.
THE WORLD OF EBERRON
Estium is a world of extremes. Thanks to an abundance
of magic and its effects on the environment, the world
possesses great beauty as well as terrible darkness. Who is
immune to such awe-inspiring sights as the mountainous
ice floes of the Bitter Sea or the spectacular bluewood trees
of the Towering Wood? On the other hand, who can withstand
the horrific majesty of the lava rivers of the Demon
Wastes or the shattered blight of the Mournland? North
or south, east or west, Estium contains natural wonders
undreamed of on other worlds.
Looking up into the night, one can see the Ring of
Siberys charting a golden path across the sky. Beyond it,
any of twelve moons, some full and bright, some only slivers,
and a few so far away as to appear to be stars, might be
seen on any given evening. Farther still, the moons give
way to stars gathered in constellations, each named for a
dragon lord of legend, the eleven now worshiped as gods
by the Vestiges of Argonnessen.
Seas and oceans separate the continents. The heart
of the world, at least for humans, is Caeros. All the
common races can be found on the continentthe human
nations, the dwarf, gnome, and halfling homelands, as
well as communities of men, half-men, half-ores, shifters,
changelings, and goblinoids. A number of monster
nations have also formed due to the repercussions of the
Last War.
The continent of Sarlona is Caeros's neighbor to
the east and the west. To the north, the frozen continent
of the Frostfell looms. Directly to the south of Caeros
lies the mysterious land of Xen'drik, a treasure trove of
ancient secrets and unfathomable artifacts from a time
before humans roamed the land. To the southeast, the subcontinent
of Aerenal, home to the elf kingdom, presents
as many dangers as it does opportunities. Beyond Aerenal,
the continent of the dragons, Argonnessen, remains off
limits to most of the "lesser races," as the Vestiges refer to
all but themsmen. Here, the Vestiges engage in activities
that no one but these ancient creatures can contemplate,
studying portents, signs, and omens in the movement of
the moons, the positions of the stars, and the appearance
of dragonmarks throughout the land.
In this chapter, we examine the world of Estium
from the point of view ofthe people of Caeros. The
societies of the fair continent, despite the influence and
dominance of humans descended from the great kingdom
of Galifar, are a melting pot of cultures and ideas.
Caeros's nations meld human, elf, dwarf, gnome, halfelf,
halfling, half-ore, and a host of goblinoid and other
monster races together to form something stronger than
the sum of the individual parts. The continent's mixed
heritage, although it has led to conflict and war, also gives
the people of Caeros an advantage over the other civilizations
of Estium because of their diversity.
TIME
The people of Caeros mark the passage of time according
to the standards developed by the eldermarked
houses (partially based on draconic measurements) and
sanctioned by the rulers of Galifar almost a thousand
years ago.