The stone portal ahead slid closed, cutting off the sliver of light that marked
the only visible means of escape. For the exhausted heroes, their resources
almost completely depleted, it seemed that this was finally the end of the
journey. Luckily, Thondred thought, an artificer always has a contingency
plan. The dwarfpulled a wand from a holder on his hip and unleashed the
magic that he had caged within it.
With the warforged named Azm at his side and a belt
pouch full of magic items, Thondred explores the ruins
ofXen'drik and braves the challenges of the continent of
secrets. A 6th-level dwarf artificer, Thondred was born
and raised in Sharn, where he worked for House Cannith
during the Last War, using his skills and talents
in the warforged production enclave. He lost his job
when the Treaty of Thronehold outlawed the creation
of new warforged.
Once the shock cleared and Thondred came to terms
with his dismissal from the house, he met up with a
displaced warforged seeking a life after the war. Thondred
called him "Azm," a word meaning something akin
to "soul" that the dwarf discovered in an ancient Xen'drik
text. Later, the pair joined forces with an elf ranger
and a shifter rogue, and now the four companions have
become known as adventurers of renown throughout the
southern coast.
Thondred, an expert at disabling traps and ancient
magic devices, purportedly defeated the Chamber of a
Thousand Perils. This entry to an extensive network of
ruins hidden deep within the Xen'drik jungles has long
been a deadly challenge to explorers and adventurers, and
many have risked injury and death in attempts to pass its
defenses. The legend says that Thondred not only survived
his visit to the Chamberhe made his way through it to
reach the ruins beyond.
The dwarf artificer carries a wide array of potions,
wands, and scrolls for every occasion. As impressive as
his arcane mastery is, he may be even better versed in
history and secret knowledge relating to the mysteries
of Xen'drik.