all things magical, and confer with colleagues in the other
nationsdespite a rivalry with the wizards of the Twelve.
Apprentices come from all over to train as magewrights
at the mentors' sides, and much of the village's economy
revolves around providing for the students. Fewer are
the students selected for wizard training, because the
mentors hold every candidate to the highest possible
standards. While traders and the occasional visitor pass
through Arcanix, most of the common folk steer clear of
the magically volatile village and the area around it.
IMPORTANT SITES
As part of the legendary kingdom of Galifar, Aundair contains
some of the oldest and most impressive human structures
built in Caeros. During the Last War, parts of
Aundair suffered from constant battle, but other portions
saw little if any action over the long century of conflict.
The area north and east of the Starpeaks, for example, saw
a lot of battle during the war, as did the land between the
Towers Valiant and Vigilant. A few skirmishes took place
along the Wynarn River, but most of the conflicts with
the Eldeen forces occurred deeper in the territory now
claimed by the Eldeen Reaches.
Fairhold: The royal seat of power, Fairhold occupies
a significant amount of real estate in the city of Fairhaven.
The King's Hall, where Queen Aurala holds audience with
the public, is an impressive chamber capable of permitting
fifteen hundred people to stand before Aundair's
crown. The Royal Collection of Aundair, housed in the
south wing of the estate, provides one of the best libraries
available in northern Caeros. The collection includes
records dating back to the founding of Galifar, as well
as a few older documents that come from the days of the
original Five Nations. The public can view some parts of
the collection, but large sections are only accessible to those
who receive special dispensation. The Courts of Justice,
located in the east wing of the estate, handle the various
trials and mediations that require interpretations and
rulings on the law. Fairhold also maintains a museum
dedicated to the crown, displaying relics that examine
the nation's historyboth as an independent country and
when it was part of the Galifar kingdom.
Whisper Rock: Dark shapes and strange sounds fill the
woods known as Whisper, located in the northern reaches of
Aundair. Monsters still roam this cold and forlorn forest,
and few dare venture too deeply into its ancient recesses.
Somewhere deep within the woods, a ruined structure
called Whisper Rock stands among misshapen trees and
overgrown brush. This ruin, believed to date back to the
early days of Galifar's kingdom, remains hotly debated
among scholars; some claim it dates back to an even earlier
time. Some say it was a temple, others that it was a fortress
set against terrors from the north. One legend says it was
built within the woods and then forgotten. Another claims
that the woods grew up around it long after the stones of its
walls and towers began to crumble with age. Whatever the
truth, it is widely believed that the Rock is the source for the
strange murmurings occasionally heard on the wind.