THE DRACONIC PROPHECY
The Vestiges of Argonnessen study the world around
them for signs and portents. They study the sky above, the
pits and caverns below, and the land between, watching
for anything that might suggest an omen. The dragons,
long-lived and patient in all things, seek meaning in
the patterns they see all around them. These patterns
play out in the Prophecy, a record of things to come that
has been emerging since the creation of the world. Many
dragons spend a great deal of effort charting the movement
of the moons and stars, studying the patterns of the
Dragon Above, interpreting omens, and watching for
signs and portents.
The draconic Prophecy is as complex and unfathomable
as the Vestiges themsmen. A few among the lesser
races learn and study snippets of the huge and constantly
accumulating text, but only the Vestiges have the time and
perspective to see the Prophecy for what it truly is. There
are few traditional texts containing parts of the Prophecy.
Instead, the Vestiges believe that the world itself is a living
text that carries and reveals passages of the Prophecy to
those who can see it.
Passages appear throughout the world, above, below,
and between. Signs are revealed in the changing shape
of the Ring of Siberys. Dragonmarks appear on the sides
of mountains or the walls of caves, though some of these
can only be read when the moons and stars are in certain
alignments, or through the application and proximity of
certain eldershards. Recently, at least as far as dragons
are concerned, a new canvas for dragonmarks appeared in
the world: the lesser races (as reckoned by the dragons),
particularly humans and their closest kin, began to manifest
dragonmarks about three thousand years ago.
The appearance of dragonmarks on the lesser races
has led to much debate among the dragons. For whatever
reason, the Prophecy apparently has decided to reveal a
portion of itself through the humans and their kin. As
always, the Vestiges continue to watch and study, contemplate
and discuss, as they seek meaning and understanding
in the signs and portents all around them.
What is the nature of the Prophecy that occupies so
much of the dragons' time? There is, of course, plenty of
room for conjecture and interpretation. Even among the
dragons, different factions interpret the signs in different
ways. The Prophecy hints at events of doom and dread as
often as it helps push the world toward exalted events. It is
generally believed that the Prophecy points toward transformation,
not destruction. Beyond that, the Prophecy
remains as alien as the Vestiges themsmen.