AUNDAIR
Capital: Fairhaven
Population: 2,000,000 (51% humans, 16% half-elves,
11% elves, 11% gnomes, 5% halflings, 3% shifter, 2%
changelings, 1% other)
Exports: Wine, cheese, grains, agriculture, books
Languages: Common, Draconic, Elf, Halfling
One of the Five Nations originally founded by the human
settlers of Khorvaire, Aundair has a rich tradition of cities
dedicated to knowledge and education while the areas
outside the cities are known for agriculture. Rich farmlands,
pastoral forests, and excellent vineyards abound.
Though the borders have changed many times over the
centuries, the nation has carried the name of Aundair
since 32 YK.
When Galifar ir'Wynarn united the Five Nations
and formed his kingdom, an unprecedented age of peace
and prosperity began. He started the tradition of giving
each of his eldest scions one of the Five Nations to govern.
His eldest daughter, Aundair, was given control of the
nation that within a generation had adopted her name as
its own (initially "Aundair's realm" but soon shortened
to just "Aundair").
During the reign of Galifar's last king, Wrogar governed
the nation. King Jarot's fourth child, Wrogar was a huge bear
of a man who enjoyed the rugged lifestyle of Aundair's countryside
as much as he loved poring through the libraries and
other depositories for books of history and religion. When
Jarot died, Wrogar initially supported his sister Mishann's
claim to the throne (Mishann ruled Cyre at the time), but
that wasn't enough to keep the kingdom together. Soon, the
Last War touched even distant Aundair.
Prior to the Last War, the nation of Aundair stretched
across the northwestern portion of the continent, from
the banks of the mighty Scions Sound to the base of the
Shadowcrags that marked the end of the kingdom. Today,
the kingdom consists of a swath of land bordered by Eldeen
Bay to the north, the Wynarn River to the west, Thrane to
the east, and Breland to the south.
The current ruler of Aundair, Queen Aurala ir'Wynarn
(NG female human, aristocrat 8), traces her lineage to Wrogar
ir'Wynarn, the first king of an independent Aundair and
one of the heirs to the Galifar kingdom. Ruling Aundair
since 980 YK, Aurala was among the signers of the Treaty
of Thronehold. She married a young noble of House Vadalis
named Sasik, who gave up his position in his family to become
part of Aundair's royal aristocracy. Despite this, he maintains
close ties to his family (including his brother Dalin, the House
patriarch), which sometimes leads the other dragonmarked
houses to see favoritism toward Vadalis where it may not actually
exist. In fact, Aurala goes out of her way to make sure
House Vadalis doesn't receive any special treatment from the
Aundairian crown or its vassals.
Today, Aundair maintains an uncomfortable peace
with its neighbors. Still reeling from the loss of the western
two-thirds of its lands (and almost a fifth of its citizens) to
the now-independent Eldeen Reaches, Aurala reluctantly
seeks to find common ground with the various factions
living to the west of the Wynarn River and Lake Galifar.
Tensions between Aundair and Thrane remain high due to
events of the Last War while the two kingdoms struggle to
establish additional treaties and agreements that will wear
down the underlying animosities. Breland and Aundair
have mostly gotten along throughout the course of the Last
War. Except for a handful of skirmishes and one major
confrontation with Breland as the century-long conflict
rolled on, the two nations have been neutral to friendly
toward one another. Karrnath, sitting across Scions Sound
from Aundair's northeastern border, has made the most
aggressive overtures for lasting peace since the end of the
war. Aurala doesn't trust Karrnath or its leaders, and she
has her own secret ambitions concerning the fate of the
Five Nations.
INDUSTRIES
Aundair produces a great number of agricultural products,
both for use within the nation and as imports for
trade. Cereals, grains, vegetables, and wines from the
Aundair countryside are considered among the best
in all of Khorvaire. The cities of Aundair contain great
centers of learning that at least equal the colleges and
universities of Zilargo, and the arcane institutes might
exceed those found anywhere else on the continent. For
this reason, magewrights, artificers, and wizards trained
in Aundair demand the highest pay scale compared to
those trained in most other traditions.
All of the dragonmarked houses maintain emporiums
and outposts throughout Aundair. Two houses, Lyrandar
and Orien, make their headquarters in the nation. House
Lyrandar's matriarch sits in the northern island city of
Stormhome, while the patriarch of House Orien runs the
family conglomerate from the city of Passage, which rises
from the eastern shore of Lake Galifar.
LIFE AND SOCIETY
Aundair's citizens consist mainly of farmers, scholars, and
magewrights. Rural farmland covers much of the countryside.
Occasionally enough people gather in one place
to form a town or village, but only a few cities disturb the
tranquility of life throughout the nation.
The life of Aundair's farmers hasn't changed much
over the centuries. They continue to use their sweat and
magic to till the land, coaxing crops from ground rich in
nutrients. Central Aundair, from Ghalt in the south to Wyr
in the north, is wine country. Vineyards stretch in all directions,
producing a variety of grapes used to make Aundair's
signature wines, many of which demand premium prices in
markets as far away as Sharn and Vedykar.
Much of Aundair enjoys a temperate climate, punctuated
by long, hot, fairly dry summers with generally mild
winters. The upper reaches of Aundair, north of the Starpeaks,
have longer, stormier winters and shorter, cooler
summers. Storms regularly roll in from Eldeen Bay to
pound northern Audair before sliding across Scions
Sound and into eastern Khorvaire.
Two major centers of learning command respect and
admiration within Aundair. The capital city of Fairhaven
boasts the University of Wynarn, the first institution of