The officer wearing the uniform of the City Watch nodded to the guard at
the door and stepped into the apothecary. Bottles and urns were scattered
and broken, a chair was overturned, and a table was on its side. The
body of the shopkeeper had been removed, but the watchman could still
examine the telltale signs of the murderthe drying blood, the shattered
moneybox, the bloodstained ledger.
The constable removed his hat and shook his head. Between shakes,
his flesh flowed and his hair grew into long, pale wisps. The human male
reverted to her true form, the changeling female Tam. She was a freelance
inquisitive, and she had used this trick more than once to gain access to a
crime scene.
''Now to figure out how the murderer got into and out of a locked
shop," she said to herself as she started to walk the floor. Her searching eyes
noticed clues that less skilled inquisitives often missed. That had to do with
herjounger days as a street thief, she imagined, for that training still served
her well in her pursuit of a more legitimate occupation.
She noticed a few stray drops of blood forming a path toward the
back wall of the shop. The dust along the base of the wall, so prominent in
other parts of the room, had been brushed to the side. Tam smiled. "Secret
door," she muttered. "Second oldest trick in the book." She examined the
wall, found a hidden latch, and tried to open it. "Locked. Probably trapped,
as well. Figures."
Long, thin metal tools appeared in Tam's dexterous fingers, retrieved
from hidden pouches and pockets, and she quickly went to work on the secret
door. She dealt with the trap mechanism first, disconnecting the trip wire
and disabling a gear. Then she sprang the lock with a few twists of her picks.
"And the amazing Tam does it again," she whispered, but before she could
open the door she heard footsteps behind her.
"Tam! How many times have I warnedjou about interfering in Watch
business?" barked Sergeant Dolom of the City Watch.
"More times than I care to remember, constable," the changeling
replied, "but we both knowjou appreciate the help I provide. Now if
jou'll excuse me, I have a murderer to catch!" Tam slipped through the
41
door before Dolom could react, and his shouts and threats faded as she
moved deeper into the dark passage beyond.
Tam, a 4th-level changeling rogue, grew up in the lower
wards of Pran. An orphan, she found a home with the Dark
Tower Gang, a minor changeling crime family operating
in the underbelly of the City of Towers. She was well on
her way to a life of crime and showing promise as a rogue
when Tarn's life took a new direction after young Constable
Dolom of the City Watch arrested her. He decided not to
send her before the Justice, and instead kept her in a holding
cell for a few days.
As the days passed, Tam and the constable discussed
law, the city, ethics, and other topics. He did not preach
to her, but through conversation and open discussion he
began to make the changeling reconsider her role in the
society of Pran.
When a perplexing murder case wound up in Dolom's
jurisdiction, Tam listened as Dolom and the rest of the
Watch discussed the situation. One night, when the watchtower
was mostly empty, Tam used her skills to free herself
from the cell (it really wasn't designed to hold an accomplished
rogue). She left Dolom a note, telling him which
suspect was the murderer (based on her evaluation of the
evidence they had been discussing). Then she resigned from
the Dark Tower Gang and went into business for herself as
a freelance inquisitive.
Dolom, now a sergeant, likes to give the changeling a
hard time, but he's also proud of the life she has built for
herselfa life on the right side of the law.