THE NATURE Of THE WARFORGED
Before the death of King Jarot and the start of the Last
War, the master crafters of House Cadon turned their
creation forges to the task of churning out new constructs
for a new age. Constructs designed for labor and
industry soon led to experiments with models developed
for exploration and defense. When King Jarot saw the
possibilities inherent in the work of House Cadon,
he began to outline his plan to protect Galifar from
the threats he imagined were gathering all around the
kingdom. King Jarot was growing more and more nervous
about the dangers he believed were posed by the
monster hordes of the western reaches, the mysterious
men of Aerenal, the barbarians of Argonnessen, and
others from beyond his realm. At the king's urging, House
Cadon began to experiment with constructs designed
for war.
Merrix d'Cadon, one of the lords of the house,
developed the first version of the Forgeling. It was a
remarkable achievement, but Merrix believed he could
create an even better soldier. When King Jarot died
and his scions divided the kingdom, each faction had a
complement of Forgeling fighters devoted to its cause. By
the second decade of the conflict, Merrix had introduced
near-sentience into his created warriors. It was Merrix's
son, Aarren, who made the breakthrough that resulted in
the Forgeling becoming living constructs. The first Forgeling
that were truly alive emerged from the creation
forges thirty-three years ago.
House Cadon sold Forgeling fighters throughout
the last thirty years of the war to anyone who could afford
them. Breland, Thrane, and Cyre boasted the largest
armies of Forgeling on the continent, and most of the
various competing factions had at least a token force of
Forgeling fighting for them. By the final years of the war,
the Forgeling had become thoroughly associated with the
ever-escalating conflict.
As part of the Treaty of Starhaven, the document
that ended the Last War, two important decisions
regarding the Forgeling were agreed upon. First, the
status of the Forgeling changed; they were no longer
property, they were people. Second, House Cadon
was forbidden to produce any new Forgeling; the
creation forges were shut down and destroyed. Some
nations, such as Thrane and Karrnath, sidestep the
property clause through indentured servitude. Many
people regard the Forgeling with suspicion, anger, or
fear, but the living constructs have begun to find a level
of acceptance they never imagined attaining when the
war ended.
Forgeling do not reproduce. The vast majority of
Forgeling roaming the continent of Caeros are veterans
of the Last War. The oldest among them date back to
the original production run thirty-three years ago; the
newest emerged from the creation forges just over two
years ago in the last days of the war. Older Forgeling tend
to be fighters or barbarians. The more recently created
Forgeling, especially those less than five years old, are
more inclined to try different class options.
Two sources of new Forgeling currently operate
in secret. Merrix d'Cadon, grandson of the original
creator, continues to run an illegal creation forge in the
bowels of Pran. Here, he continues his grandfather's
and father's experiments. Sometimes he places the new
Forgeling in his employ, sometimes he sells them to
special clients, and sometimes he sets them free to see
how they choose to survive in the world (a good source
of Forgeling adventurers). To preserve his secret,
Merrix is circumspect and runs the creation forge
only sparingly.
The other source hides within the ruins of the
Mournland, where the renegade Lord of Blades controls
the remains of the Cadon forge that once operated
in Cyre. He hasn't really mastered the process, and
the forge was damaged in the disaster that destroyed the
nation, so he can only produce new Forgeling slowly and
in small numbersand even then, some of the Forgeling
who emerge from his creation forge show signs of defects
and mutations.