The tavern was dark and smoky, filled with the most diverse collection of
beings that Kasha had ever seen in one place. Her adventuring companion
Thiera had warned her that the world outside their monastery was different,
but with each new day she discovered a new difference that added one
more crack to the foundation of her faith.
She brushed aside such negative thoughts and strained to find her
quarry, a half-elf inquisitive known as Jorune. He was supposed to
have some information about the attack on her monastery. She could
endure this establishment of temptation long enough to have her meeting,
she supposed.
Kasha stepped across the crowded floor, making her way toward the
booths near the back. She remembered reading somewhere that inquisitives
always met their clients in shadowy places such as this. Before she could get
very far, a large, strong half-ore in grimy leather grabbed her by the arm
and swung her into his lap.
"You're too pretty to be a monk," the drunken half-ore laughed.
"How's about I teachjou something that's not in any of those religion books
you're used to?"
Kasha smiled to hide her nervousness. "How about not?" she said,
trying to sound brave. She spun away, avoiding the half-ore's lunginggrasp,
so that she wound up standing tall while the half-ore crashed into a nearby
table. Stunned and unsure exactly what had just happened, the half-ore lay
among the shattered wood and spilled goblets. "My faith teaches me more
than just the spiritual side of life," Kasha said, and then she turned away to
continue her search.
A native of Aundair, Kasha is a 2nd-level human monk.
She has spent most of her life in a monastery dedicated to
the Silver Flame, a place that was not touched by the Last
War. Ironically, though, the monastery was destroyed a few
months ago by unknown attackers.
Along with Thiera, a paladin attached to the monastery,
Kasha was sent into the world to investigate the attack
on the monastery. The two young adventurers have followed
a wild trail from Aundair to Thrane, to the Shadow
Marches, and most recently to Breland in search of a
Nantangil psychic warrior who supposedly knows something
about the enemy that attacked the monastery.
Young and idealistic, Kasha lived a cloistered life
until very recently. She is mystified by life outside the
monastery, awed by the soaring towers of Pran and disgusted
by the habits of the ores of the Shadow Marches.
The mystery of the destruction of her monastery gnaws
at her faith, but Thiera assures her that their faith will
be stronger because of the hardships and challenges they
must endure to solve the mystery and bring the enemy
to justice.
PALADIN
Paladins, like clerics, are the knights of the churches, most
particularly the Church of the Silver Flame and, to a lesser
extent, the churches of Dol Arrah and Boldrei. Paladins
are called to a strict and exalted life, and are mystically
held to a higher standard than even clerics. A cleric of the
Church of the Silver Flame can fall into heresy or even
adopt an evil alignment and still retain all his abilities,
but a paladin must rise above the corruption that plagues
almost every church and cling to the highest ideals of her
faith. In a place such as Pran, in particular, where the
churches are so rife with corruption, paladins arise to
bring justice to the people