THE ROYAL FAMILIES
King Galifar I established a royal line that continues to
rule parts of Khorvaire to the present day. When Galifar
united the Five Nations under his banner, he gave
each of his five eldest children regency over one of the
nations. His descendants continued this practice as age
and number of offspring allowed, so that for most of the
reigns of the Galifar kings and queens, their children
learned leadership by governing parts of the kingdom
and were therefore more or less ready to step onto the
throne when the king abdicated or died. Succession went
to the oldest scion of each generationat least until the
death of Kingjarot and the succession struggle that led
to the Last War.
Today, the descendants of Galifar ir'Wynarn continue
to play instrumental roles in Khorvaire. Three
of the remaining Five Nations are still ruled by the
Wynarn family, and the fourth nation's royal family,
while not on the throne, has some role in the governing
of the nation.
Queen Aurala ir'Wynarn (NG female human, aristocrat
8) rules Aundair, and her extended family and
loyal nobles administer to the needs of the people. From
the capital city of Fairhaven, Aurala commands all she
surveys and plots to use the calm of the current peace
to launch a storm that sees her claim the Galifar crown
for her own.
King Boranel ir'Wynarn (CG male human, aristocrat
3/fighter 8) leads the royal family of Breland from an
ancient estate in the capital city of Wroat. Older than the
other rulers of the Five Nations and with heirs that have as
yet not inspired love and devotion, Boranel worries about
the fate of Breland when his head finally becomes too weak
to carry the crown.
King Kaius III, in actuality the vampire Kaius I (LE
male vampire [human], aristocrat 2/fighter 11), rules the
nation of Karrnath. Few among his court or subjects know
the truth about Kaius's identity or nature. He maintains
the military dictatorship that has served the nation well,
while working to stabilize the peace and turn his nation
into a more progressive society.
Diani ir'Wynarn (NG female human, aristocrat 4)
leads the royal family of Thrane, which serves merely as a
figurehead in the theocracy. She works in secret to make
deals with foreign powers in an effort to reclaim the government
of the nation, but the Church of the Silver Flame
has a solid hold on the reins of power and will prove difficult
to overthrow.
Other members of the Wynarn family can be found
throughout Khorvaire. Perhaps the next most powerful of
these is Oargev ir'Wynarn (LN male human, aristocrat 3/
fighter 1), the last remaining scion of Cyre's ruling family.
A leader in exile, Oargev makes his base in the town of New
Cyre, graciously provided by Breland for the refugees of
the destroyed nation.