WARDENS OF THE WOOD
The great forest of the Eldeen Reaches is filled with a
dozen druid sects. Each sect consists of druids, rangers,
and others who feel a bond to nature, and each has
its own beliefs and motivations. The largest and most
influential of the sects is the Wardens of the Wood.
The Wardens are primarily human, but include men,
half-men, men, and a few members of other races.
They guard the plains and forests, protecting nature
and the people living there from all threatsnatural
and unnatural alike.
The Great Druid Oalian (N awakened greatpine, druid
20) is recognized as the ultimate authority in the region
by all the sects except for the Gatekeepers. The Wardens
of the Wood directly serve Oalian and act as his eyes and
ears throughout the region.
The Wardens of the Wood, like the Gatekeepers,
maintain static communities where children are raised
and taught. The Wardens of the Wood dominate the
region. Over the last three decades they have spread out
across the plains as well as continuing to occupy the great
forest. The Wardens seek to maintain the balance between
civilization and nature. Human, orc, bird, and beast all
have a place in the worldthey just need to be provided
with the proper aid and guidance. The Wardens protect
travelers from bandits, rabid beasts, and the aberrations
that lurk in the shadows. They have no problem with
agriculture and animal husbandry, as long as both land
and beast are treated with respect and compassion. They
work with farmers and ranchers to ensure that the needs
of nature are met.
The druid sects have little influence outside the
Eldeen Reaches. Within the great forest, there are
friendly ties between the Wardens of the Wood and the
Gatekeepers. The other sects respect the Great Druid,
but generally come together only for important conclaves
and rituals. Oalian has forbidden open conflict
between the druid sects. However, individual druids
and rangers often follow their own hearts. Wardens of
the Wood often interfere with Ashbound raids, and the
Children of Winter occasionally clash with members of
246
other sects. However, all personal vendettas are set aside
while druids are in Greenheart or in the presence of
the Great Druid.