The Brelish Crown: King Boranel leads the royal
family of Breland. His immediate family consists of six
sons, five daughters, and his surviving siblingsthree
younger brothers, four younger sistersand their wives,
husbands, and children. Boranel's brother Kor (NG
male human, aristocrat 3/fighter 3) serves as his royal
advisor and the commander of the Citadel, while his
son Bortan (LG male human, expert 5) serves as the
144
royal steward and controls most of the crown's finances.
Boranel's youngest son Halix and his daughter Borina
have been sent to the court of Kaius in Karrnath to study
and as part of an exchange to solidify the current peace;
King Kaius's sister Haydith has been sent to the Brelish
court in their place; after a shy start, she is proving to be
very popular with the nobility.
The king rules from the family's ancestral home in
Wroat, the halls of the mighty Brokenblade Castle. Named
after the events surrounding the legendary King Galifar
I's conquest of the nation, when (as the story goes) his
sword blade shattered in the battle but he managed to win
the day anyway, Brokenblade Castle rises alongside the
Howling River, near where it empties into and merges with
the Dagger River. Parliament Hall, the meeting place and
offices of the elected legislators of Breland, is located but
a short walk from the battlements of Brokenblade Castle.
Boranel also maintains working residences in Sharn and
Starilaskur, and keeps Castle Arakhain, in the western
part of the country, as a retreat.
The Breland Parliament: Breland's parliament
consists of both elected legislators and hereditary noble
legislators. The citizens of Breland elect legislators
every two years. These elected lawmakers, selected by
popular vote (one from each village or town, two from
each city, and three each from the metropolises of Sharn
and Wroat), are sent to the capital to participate in all
parliamentary proceedings. The noble legislators gain
their seats in the parliament based on the status of their
families; each noble family holds one seat in the parliament.
Each year, the recognized head of the family
appoints a family member to parliamentary duty. In
many cases, the yearly appointment is symbolic, and
each family has one representative who serves year in
and year out. Twenty-seven noble families serve the
crown of Breland.
The Breland parliament usually works in concert
with the crown, but the two branches of authority have
disagreed and even clashed on occasion. One noble in
particular, Lord Ruken ir'Clarn (LE male human, aristocrat
2), doesn't want to see the monarchy continue after
Boranel's death. He and a few trusted conspirators seek to
remove the crown's authority with the passing of Boranel,
thereby giving all ruling power to the parliament. The
parliament, in turn, would elect a prime minister to
preside over the council and the nation. Ruken envisions
himself initially filling that role.
Nobles and Vassal Lords: The nobles granted land
and title by the crown of Breland perform a number of
functions in the running of the country. In addition to
protecting their farmers and managing their estates, the
nobles provide troops and taxes just as do their counterparts
in the other nations. In general, the noble lords
respect and admire their king, and they have a fierce
pride in the accomplishments of their nation. If Boranel
had asked them to keep fighting instead of ratifying the
Treaty of Thronehold, most of the nobles would have
gladly continued the war. A handful of noble lords, while
respecting Boranel's leadership, secretly believe that his
children have a mere shadow of his skill and charisma.
For this reason, they meet occasionally to draw up plans
for replacing the monarchyor at least the royal heirs
when Boranel finally expires.
The King's Citadel: The elite agents of the Citadel
operate in the interests and at the behest of the crown of
Breland. Originally formed as an elite unit of spies and
scouts during the Last War, the Citadel became the eyes,
ears, and sword of Breland's ruler. The Citadel operates
throughout Breland as the ultimate agency for dispensing
the King's justice. Local watches and constabularies
can call on its agents when a crime or situation poses a
threat that spreads beyond their jurisdiction. Agents, on
the other hand, can insert themselves into any situation
they deem appropriate, since they wield the authority of
the crown. The Citadel also conducts operations beyond
Breland's borders, gathering intelligence, performing
covert missions, and vigilantly working to keep Breland
safe from its enemies.
Part spy, part inquisitive, and part soldier, the agents
of the Citadel serve crown and country with heart and
soul. The agents have their oath and their duty to guide
them, and they are expected to operate always with the
good of Breland in mind.
Today the Citadel's main headquarters can be
found in Wroat, not far from Brokenblade Castle. The
agency has another base of operations in Sharn, as well
as numerous roving agents working throughout Breland
and, discreetly, beyond the nation's borders. Lord Kor
ir'Wynarn commands the Citadel, assisted by the Citadel
captains who each head up a division of the agency. For
example, Captain Ellanar (LG female half-elf, paladin
6) leads the King's Swords, a unit of elite warriors
trained to undertake special missions. Other divisions
include the King's Shields (charged with protecting the
king and his closest family members and associates),
the King's Wands (an elite unit of wizards and sorcerers),
and the King's Dark Lanterns (the intelligence
branch of the Citadel).
RELIGION
Breland's citizens mainly belong to the Church of the
Silver Flame or the Sovereign Host, though as a whole
the nation isn't strongly religiousthe Brelish have more
faith in themselves and their king than in gods who never
walk the land. Nevertheless, Sham's eclectic cosmopolitanism
extends to faiths as well; in the great metropolis
can be found representatives and followers of almost every
religion and faith. Some devotees simply pass through on
their way to some other part of the continent. Others
remain (although a lot of them still plan to leave when
the opportunity presents itself) in the City of Towers and
try to provide spiritual sustenance to the masses that flow
through the city.
A few of the more violent and dangerous cults have
forged hiding places within the nation. A Blood of Vol
temple has been established, quietly and in secret, somewhere
deep within the towers of Sharn. A number of separate
groups devoted to the Dragon Below have long held
positions of power and influence within the nation, though
they rarely reveal their true nature or intentions.