DRAGONMARKED HOUSES
The dragonmarked houses have existed for thousands
of years. For some reason not completely understood,
the common races living on the continents of Khorvaire
and Aerenal developed dragonmarks and the spell-like
abilities associated with them. Some sages believe that the
abundance of Eberron dragonshards on these continents
has something to do with the development of dragonmarks,
but no one can prove this theory. What is known is that
humans and elves never manifested dragonmarks while
living in the Eberron-dragonshard-deficient regions of
Sarlona and Xen'drik.
Individual dragonmarks appeared within bloodlines,
and soon family dynasties sprang up to take advantage
of the dragonmark powers. Each family created an economic
empire using the dragonmarks, and the dragonmarked
houses developed into independent commerce
states operating across multiple nations. The War of the
Mark, which ended about fifteen hundred years ago,
stabilized the houses and ended the threat of aberrant
and mixed marks that might have destroyed the economy
of Khorvaire. Today, twelve dragonmarks shared among
thirteen houses form the basis for economic power across
the continent.
Agreements reached at the end of the War of the
Mark formalized tenets and traditions that all the houses
adhere to. These include rules concerning neutrality (all
houses make a show of remaining neutral so that they can
operate in all nations), fair trade and practices, family
naming conventions, and a ban on marriages between
houses so that the dragonmarks remain pure.
Family members run each house, with either a matriarch
or patriarch serving as the chief executive of both
family and economic business. House family members
form an economic aristocracy on par with the royal and
noble families of the various nations, and family leaders
are literally barons of industry and commerce. Each
house also employs retainers and hirelings to aid in the
family business. Those retainers and hirelings who show
initiative and promise can rise through the ranks to hold
important positions within the house. The most effective
and promising of these might be invited into the family
through marriage to the young scions of the blood, thus
making sure the bloodline continues.
Even though the house blood flows through the
veins of every family member, not every one of them has
a dragonmark; only a small percentage of every generation
manifests a mark. Among those who do, the least
mark is the most common to appear, with fewer lesser
marks, and fewer still greater marks appearing in each
generation. Those who do develop a dragonmark are
singled out for great things and have responsibilities
to the family that scions without marks never have to
worry about.
HOUSE CANNITH
House Cannith, consisting of humans with the Mark of
Making, includes alchemists, artificers, and magewrights
of great skill, as well as the best mundane crafters on the
continent. House Cannith arose in pre-Galifar Cyre
almost twenty-five hundred years ago. Originally, the
Cannith clan consisted of traveling tinkers, repairers,
and crafters whose burgeoning dragonmarks gave them
an edge over the competition. As the house developed, it
turned its attention to supernatural disciplines, studying
alchemy and pioneering the techniques of artificers
and magewrights. As builders, fixers, and creators, the
house maintains a lawful outlook. Some of its greatest
accomplishments include the lightning rail, the warforged,
and the high-rising towers of Sharn.
The destruction of Cannith's ancestral estates in Cyre
and the death of the patriarch have thrown the house into
231
chaos. Three leaders have emerged, each intending to
lead the house into the future. While the situation
hasn't yet grown as bad as the split in the Mark
of Shadow family that resulted in the creation
of a new house, none of the emerging
Cannith leaders is willing to accept the
others as the new house patriarch. So far,
they have reluctantly shared influence
in the family by concentrating on their
own regions and not attempting to pull
the entire family together.
Baron Jorlanna d'Cannith (LN female
human, wizard 8) operates out of Fairhaven
and oversees the house's efforts in Aundair,
Thrane, and the Eldeen Reaches. Baron
Merrix d'Cannith (LE male human, artificer
9/dragonmark heir 3) leads the house's
activities in Breland, Zilargo, and Darguun from holdings
in Sharn. Baron Zorlan d'Cannith (NE male human,
artificer 3/sorcerer 4/dragonmark heir 1) controls house
operations in Karrnath, the Mror Holds, and the Lhazaar
Principalities from an enclave in Korth.
House Cannith maintains two guilds. The Tinkers
Guild serves to maintain society by repairing damaged
structures and vehicles, maintaining infrastructures in
the major cities, and performing similar crafts. Cannith
tinkers often travel on circuits between smaller villages,
using magical and mundane skills to assist communities
that they pass through. The Fabricators Guild performs
the greatest works of craft, artifice, and magic. The guild
is divided into dozens of specialties, including architects,
elemental binders, alchemists, and armorers. The Fabricators
Guild closely guards the secrets of its creation patterns.
With one of these patterns (each made up of three or
more sections called schemas), a member of the guild can
replicate an item faster and with less effort than someone
working without a pattern.
The services provided by House Cannith are invaluable,
and all the nations and dragonmarked houses have
an interest in maintaining friendly relations with the
House of Making. House Cannith's greatest enemy is
itself. Both Jorlanna and Zorlan seek to gain
control of the entire house, while Merrix is
content to rule over the southern interests
and continue his secret experiments deep
beneath Sharn.

HOUSE DENEITH
The proud humans of House Deneith carry
the Mark of Sentinel. Born in pre-Galifar
Karrnath about twenty-six hundred years
ago, today the house offers the services of
the Defenders Guild and Blademarks Guild,
one devoted to protection and the other to supply mercenaries
to the highest bidders. From his base of operations
in Karrlakton, Baron Breven d'Deneith (LN male
human, aristocrat 3/fighter 3/dragonmark heir 4) controls
the guilds and oversees the activities of the Sentinel
Marshals who, by ancient decree, provide law and order
across national boundaries.
Since the rise of Galifar, House Deneith has held to a
military structure. Heirs of the house are expected to serve
in the Defenders Guild, the Blademarks, or the Sentinel
Marshals, and leaders of the house are usually chosen from
the generals of the Blademarks.
Because of its mercenary forces, Deneith holds the
most significant military power among the dragonmarked
houses. In the past, it has strictly abided by its vow of
neutrality, selling its services to those on both sides of any
conflict. With the Five Nations weakened by the Last War,
some within the house feel that it is time for Deneith to
exercise its power to forge a new kingdom. Chief among
these activists is Shirin d'Deneith (LE male human,
rogue 3/fighter 4/dragonmark heir 2), Lord Commander
of the Blademarks. A recent convert to the Blood of Vol,
Shirin has been working with the Order of the Emerald
Claw and may soon attempt to wrest control of the house
away from Breven.
The Defenders Guild provides personal
protection, including skilled bodyguards
and wizards who can place warding
spells on their charges. The Blademarks
Guild manages mercenary activities
across Khorvaire. Members of House
Deneith serve as officers, trainers,
and strategists, but the rank-and-file
soldiers of the Blademarks are largely
hired mercenaries. The hobgoblins of
Darguun and the elves of Valenar both
have strong representation in the forces
of Deneith, but most of the house's soldiers
are human. One noteworthy troop is
the League of the Bitter Blade. This mercenary
band is composed of soldiers who served in
the Queen's Guard of Cyre and are now left with no war
to fight and no kingdom to return to.

HOUSE GHALLANDA
The Mark of Hospitality appeared
among the halflings of the Talenta
Plains nearly thirty-two hundred years
ago. By using its powers related to food
and shelter, the Ghallanda clan became
a powerful force among the nomads of
the Plains. Eventually, the family began
to send representatives to the burgeoning
human nations, and the Hostelers
Guild was born.
Today, the patriarch of the house holds
court in the ancient city of Gatherhold. Here, \5*"ALb
Baron Yoren d'Ghallanda (CG male halfling,
expert 3/bard 4) keeps a firm grip on both aspects of his
house's heritagethe traditional nomadic culture still
practiced on the Talenta Plains and the "civilized" halflings
who have been living among the other common races
for thousands of years.
In the Talenta Plains, House Ghallanda maintains
the shared city of Gatherhold for the many nomadic halfling
tribes that use it for trading and clan meetings. In the
Plains, the house also provides a traveling fair called the
Wandering Inn for halflings ranging far from the protective
walls of Gatherhold.
In the other nations, the integrated halflings who grew
up among the common races operate the Hostelers Guild.
Members of the guild include innkeepers, chefs, and
restaurateurs, as well as inspectors who enforce standards
and regulate business for all member establishmentsthose
run by the house as well as those independent inns and
restaurants willing to earn the house seal and display it for
all to see.

HOUSE JORASCO
The Mark of Healing first appeared among the halflings
of the Talenta Plains about three thousand
years ago, but the Jorasco family eventually
moved its headquarters to Karrnath
to better serve greater Khorvaire. For
this reason, most of the Jorasco halflings
are cosmopolitan and cultured in
the traditions of the Five Nations, with
few ties to the ancient nomadic ways of
the Plains.
Today, the Healers Guild of House
Jorasco tends to the well-being of most
/
' ^ P of Khorvaire. Using both mundane and
 " magical healing techniques, as well as
alchemy and herbalism, the healers of
House Jorasco deal in curing illnesses, tendNi&'fyF
ing wounds, and treating mental maladies
in their hospitals and healing enclaves.
The matriarch of the house, Ulara d'Jorasco (LG
female halfling, adept 6/dragonmark heir 5), is dedicated
to overseeing her healing enclave and training hospital
in Vedykar. She rarely travels far from the enclave, leaving
the business of managing distant healing centers to
younger family members. She has little patience for the
traditional halflings of the Talenta Plains, who treat her
house with suspicion and distrust. Still, House Jorasco has
healing centers even among the nomadic halflings, for the
house's code requires that all who need aid receive itas
long as they can pay for the service.

HOUSE KUNDARAK
Possessing great wealth and the magical Mark
of Warding, the dwarves of House Kundarak
have established themselves as the bankers
and moneylenders of Khorvaire, as
well as providers of persistent security
for businesses and precious goods.
While the Mark of Warding
appeared among the dwarves twentyfive
hundred years ago, it wasn't until
the rise of Galifar that the Kundarak
dwarves emerged from barbarism and
discovered the full extent of their magical
gift. Kundarakhold has rich deposits
of precious metals, and the clan initially
used its dragonmark to protect its vaults. By
106 YK, House Kundarak was admitted into
the exclusive membership of the dragonmarked
houses, and today House Kundarak's banking system
operates throughout Khorvaire.
House Kundarak is a business, and the heirs of
the house are expected to earn their keep. The current
patriarch, Baron Morrikan d'Kundarak (LN male
dwarf, aristocrat 3/fighter 6), coordinates the operations
of the Banking Guild and the Warding Guild
from vast estates in Kundarakhold. Major branches of
the family operate in Aundaire, Thrane, Karrnath,
Breland, Zilargo, and the Lhazaar Principalities, each
with its own director of operations. These nobles report
to Kundarakhold, but manage the daily affairs of the
house in their region.
The Banking Guild provides loans, letters of credit,
and safekeeping services in all the nations mentioned
above. Only the Lhazaar Principalities have relatively
minor banking facilities, and the Warding Guild has
more extensive operations there due to its work with the
prison island of Dreadhold. One of the most popular
services for those who can afford it is the safedeposit
vault. A client can rent a vault for
10 gp per day. The client and any delegated
companions receive a word of access and
can deposit an item (weighing up to 10
pounds) into the vault. Through arcane
means, the vault can be accessed from any
Kundarak banking center, regardless of
where the vault was originally accessed.
Members of the house receive a discount
on this service.
Other services provided by the Banking
Guild include exchanging coins for more
transportable forms of wealth, such as gems
or bills of exchange. The larger offices link by
magical means, and an individual who maintains
a balance with the bank can withdraw funds from any
of the major outposts. The house speculates in a variety
of businesses (including its own precious metals trade),
and wealthy clients can choose to take advantage of investment
services. Kundarak also provides credit and loans,
but as an institution, the bank only deals with royalty,
dragonmarked houses, guilds, and other large groups.
However, a Kundarak agent may provide a loan to an
individual or adventuring party as a matter of
personal speculation.
The Warding Guild consists of
experts in magical and mundane security,
as well as troops trained to guard
Kundarak holdings. House members
stationed at Dreadhold belong to this
guild. The guild provides independent
security consulting and services;
Kundarak locks and traps are renowned
throughout the land.
Many of the nations of Khorvaire and
the dragonmarked houses rely on House
Kundarak for loans and security, which
gives the house considerable influence.
House Kundarak has close ties to House
Sivis. Gnomes are found at most major
branches of the bank. In exchange for a share of
the profits, the House of Scribing provides bookkeeping
services, verifies important documents, and assists with
magical communication, in addition to providing the services
of its mundane advocates and mediators.

HOUSE LYRANDAR
House Lyrandar consists of half-elves with the Mark of
Storm. The house appeared in pre-Galifar Thrane two
thousand years ago, but today it operates out of Aundair
to avoid the restrictive rule of Thrane's theocracy. The
house matriarch, Esravash d'Lyrandar (NG female halfelf,
expert 7/dragonmark heir 2), oversees both the Raincallers
Guild and the Windwrights Guild from the island
paradise of Stormhome, which the house created off the
coast of Aundair.
The Raincallers Guild helps farmers across Khorvaire,
as well as any others who need to affect the weather
in a localized area. The Windwrights Guild controls a vast
shipping and transporation business that operates in the
air and across the seas.
With outposts in Breland, Aundair,
Zilargo, Thrane, Valenar, and Karrnath,
House Lyrandar's shipping and transporation
services rival those of House
Orien, and the two often compete
over contracts that could be fulfilled
over either land or sea. The half-elves
find few opportunities in the Lhazaar
Principalities, however, and often come
into conflict with ships of the Lhazaar
princes in the open seas.

HOUSE MEDANl
The half-elves of House Medani carry the Mark
of Detection. House Medani originated in pre-Galifar
Breland fifteen hundred years ago, using its abilities to
detect threats to foresee dangers and establish a base of
power related to knowledge in the wake of the War of the
Mark. Today, Baron Trelib d'Medani (NG male half-elf,
rogue 7/master inquisitive 2) oversees house activities and
controls the Warning Guild from an enclave in Wroat. He is
a powerful and influential friend of Breland's King Boranel
and has a tendency to favor that nation in his dealings.
The Warning Guild offers services related to personal
protection. Its members work as bodyguards, scouts, sentries,
and inquisitives, ever vigilant for unexpected threats
that could pose a danger to the clients they serve.

HOUSE VADALlS
House Vadalis bears the Mark of Handling,
which has the power to calm and control animals. The
Vadalis Handlers Guild breeds and sells a tremendous
variety of animals, and Vadalis handlers serve as teamsters,
trainers, and stablekeepers across Khorvaire.
The humans who formed the Vadalis family migrated
to the Eldeen Reaches about two thousand years ago. When
the Mark of Handling emerged two hundred years later,
offering the settlers a defense against the many wild animals
of the region, it was seen as a gift from the gods.
House Vadalis has developed that gift into a lucrative and
powerful economic position.
Today, the power of House Vadalis radiates from the
Eldeen Reaches, and the Handlers Guild has outposts
throughout Khorvaire. House Vadalis is a family first
and a business second. Patriarch Dalin d'Vadalis (CG
male human, expert 8) oversees house operations from
an enclave in the heart of the city of Varna, and the house
maintains a number of small towns throughout the eastern
portion of the Eldeen Reaches.
Vadalis produces remarkable mounts, livestock, and
guardian beasts, using natural animals, domesticated magical
creatures, and magebred animals enhanced through
generations of arcane experiments. From magebred dire
wolves to pegasus mounts, Vadalis is the source for all
manner of unusual creatures.
In addition to breeding and selling animals, the
Handlers Guild provides a host of other services. House Vadalis maintains stables in most major towns and cities, provides training and health care for animals of all descriptions,
and hires out drivers and teamsters
for caravans and coaches. While
they are relatively slow, the messenger
bird and mounted post services of
House Vadalis provide a connection to
out-of-the-way communities that are
too small to support the operations of
House Sivis or House Orien.
House Vadalis has always had close
ties with House Orien, and Orien
caravans often use Vadalis drivers and
animals. Since the druids emerged
from the Great Forest, Vadalis has done
239
its best to maintain strong ties with the Wardens of the
Wood. Not all the Eldeen druid sects approve of House
Vadalis. In particular, the Ashbound despise Vadalis
and often raid the holdings of the house. In addition,
House Vadalis made bitter enemies among the elves of
Valenar when it sought to steal a herd of Valenar horses
twenty years ago.