The Crying Fields: A stretch of land east of the town
of Ghalt, the Crying Fields saw battle after bloody battle
as Thrane and Aundair fought for control of what is now
southern Aundair. Today, no one farms these fields, no
animals graze upon the crimson-tinged grass. The place
has a forlorn, melancholy atmosphere, as though a thick
and cloying fog hangs over it. On nights when the primary
moon of the month rises full, the sounds of battle can be
heard rolling across the empty expanse, and some claim
that the dead soldiers even appear to continue their endless
struggle for the land.
The name of the area comes from the sound the wind
makes when it blows from Lake Galifar and crosses into
Thrane. That's when sounds of anguish and despair claim
the fields. Low and distant during the day, the cries grow
louder and more distinct at night.
Starpeaks Observatory: Located high in the Starpeaks,
a mountain chain in northern Aundair, the Starpeaks
Observatory was constructed in 512 YK by King
Daroon. Daroon became fascinated with the practice of
charting the moons and stars, especially with the idea
that these charts could provide signs and portents for the
future. He had the observatory built, but he died before
construction was completed. Now the Arcane Congress
uses the place to study the moons and stars.
ADVENTURING IN AUNDAIR
Travel throughout Aundair is relatively fast and easy.
In addition to Orien caravan routes, trade roads, and
well-worn paths, a lightning rail connects Aundair with
Breland and Thrane, and House Lyrandar constantly
moves airships to and from Stormhome, with a stop in
Fairhaven along the way. House Lyrandar also runs sea
vessels from Lake Galifar to Eldeen Bay and along Scions
Sound and the rivers that branch off it.
Travel through Aundair is, for the most part, safe.
Bandits and monsters sometimes attack from out of the
Blackcaps in the south, and all manner of rebels and marauders
regularly appear from and disappear into the Eldeen
Reaches. Other dangerous regions include the Whisper
Woods, certain parts of the Starpeaks, and the Crying
Fields between Aundair and Thrane.
Aundair and its people believe in and follow the Galifar
Code of Justice. That said, it isn't unusual for a farmer to
take matters of protection into his own hands when neither
manor lord nor knight is available to help him. In the towns
and cities, however, the local officers don't believe in letting
citizens or visitors enforce the law in their place.
As a general rule, Aundairians are a friendly and gregarious
lot. They are disposed to side with Brelish travelers
a bit more regularly than with those from the other nations,
and still have more than a few hard feelings for the Karrns
and Thranes. While they feel pity for the displaced survivors
of Cyre, they have no wish for Cyrans to settle among
them and have actually turned away a wave of refugees from
the ruined nation.
The people of Aundair currently have little love for
the settlers of the Eldeen Reaches, since they still harbor
bitter memories of the guerrilla warfare that hindered
Aundair's attempts to reclaim the western territory.
Adventurers can be found in Fairhaven and Stormhome,
working for any number of patrons or seeking
gear or employment. Some come to Fairhaven to engage
in research, some to take on odd jobs for the Royal Eyes
of Aundair. Adventuring groups containing arcane
spellcasters might seek out Arcanix and the Arcane
Congress at some point in hopes of expanding their
power and abilities.
Though not as well known for hiring adventurers as
Morgrave University, the University of Wynarn sometimes
seeks out explorers to assist in relic recovery, academic
research, and historical investigation. Because they do
compete so heavily with Morgrave, the headmasters of
Wynarn are known for making outrageous offers to get
adventurers to work for their causes.
ADVENTURE IDEAS
The Spy Master of the Royal Eyes of Aundair hires
a group of adventurers to gather intelligence on the true
intentions of King Kaius of Karrnath.
Marauders known as the Eldeen Wolves sporadically
raid the villages and farms along the Wynarn River before
disappearing into the woods just west of the river, and the
authorities in Passage seek the help of adventurers to put
a stop to the attacks.
A noble of House Orien has been found dead in his
estate in Passage. Is it a deliberate act of murder, or is the
entire vintage of Bluevine wine poisoned?
The Arcane Congress hires an escort to take one
of its wizards to a meeting with the Wizard Council of
Zilargo, fearful that the meeting is part of an elaborate
plot to kidnap the best arcane scholars in Khorvaire.
A village north of the Whisper Woods has been
deserted. The inhabitants have disappeared, leaving food
on tables, valuables in houses, and animals in their barns.
Lady Cala ir'Trun requires the assistance of experienced
adventurers to discover the fate of her vassals.
House Lyrandar needs guards-for-hire to protect
the next airship traveling from Stormhome to Sharn. Airborne
raiders have been striking at different points along
the route, as though they have some method for tracking
the airship as it soars above the land.
The changeling Kreelo, head of the Dark Dagger
Gang that controls a portion of the Fairhaven underworld,
has put out a call for adventurers looking to make a few
quick pieces of gold. Kreelo wants to put some pressure
on a new player in the city, a half-orc from the Shadow
Marches who arrived with enough gold and ambition to
challenge Kreelo and some of the lesser crime bosses.
Warlord Adal seeks adventurers willing to spy on
Queen Aurala and report back to him with their findings.
A copper dragon has perched in the Starpeaks, not far
from the Starpeaks observatory. So far, it has kept to itself
and not caused too much trouble, though it has been eating
freely from a number of herds near the mountains. The
wizard Larhut, keeper of the observatory, is worried that
the dragon may have designs on his facility. Therefore,
he has made discreet inquiries to find some adventurers
willing to approach the dragon and ask it what business it
has in the Starpeaks.