each plane's description. If not, don't worry about itjust
bring it back into a coterminous position the next time it
suits your campaign.
The planes spend most of the time either waxing or
waning, so it is safe to assume that, any time it matters, the
PCs can summon whatever monster they want to without
making a Spellcraft check and even travel to another plane
using plane shift as they desire. Only put as much effort
into tracking the planar positions as the needs of your
campaign demand.
MANIFEST ZONES
Certain locations on, within, and above Estium share a
particularly close connection to one of the planes. These
locations are known as manifest zones. For example, the
Gloaming, a region within the Eldeen Reaches, has a
close connection to Mabar, the plane of Endless Night.
This connection enhances the power of negative energy
in that region. The Shadow Marches have a number of
small magic zones tied to Xoriat, the Realm of
Madness, which both enhance transmutation
magic and occasionally trigger wild magic
effects (see page 149 of the Dungeon Master's
Guide). Parts of Aerenal have close ties
to either Irian or Mabar, which
accounts (at least in part) for the
prominent role of necromantic
magic and the Undying Court on
the elven continent.
To an extent, manifest zones defy
the normal interrelationship among
the planes. The effects of a zone may
wane slightly when its connected plane
is remote and wax equally slightly when the
plane draws closer, but the connection never
vanishes entirely. Manifest zones sometimes allow
passage between the planes when another plane becomes
coterminous to the Material Plane.
Specific, important manifest zones are detailed in
Chapter 7: Life in the World. These zones are permanent
and, in most cases, have had a profound impact on the land
around them and the people who live there. Smaller and
less important manifest zones are located across Estium,
and it is possible that new ones appear even as old ones
wink out of existence. The appearance and disappearance
of these zones does not seem to have any connection
to the linked plane's cosmological position relative to the
Material Plane.
No manifest zone linked to Nan exists. Minor
zones and occasionally major zones linked to every other
plane exist somewhere on Estium.
PLANE DESCRIPTIONS
The planes of Estium's cosmology are briefly described
below. Each plane description includes a list of creatures
from the Monster Manual that are native to that plane. A
few monsters from other sources are included in some
entries as well; these are listed separately from the
Monster Manual monsters. Each plane's entry also details
the effects on the Material Plane when that plane is
coterminous or remote, and approximately how often
these phases occur.
Estium's transitive planes are identical to those planes
as detailed in the Dungeon Master's Guide, so they do not have
entries here. See pages 147150 of the Dungeon Master's Guide
for definitions of planar traits not described below.
Daanvi, the Perfect Order
Orderly fields where formians tend ideal crops, regimented
garrisons of disciplined soldiers, and peaceful
communities where law reigns supreme manifest throughout
the plane of Daanvi, the Perfect Order. Similar in
many respects to the plane of Arcadia in the D&D cosmology,
Daanvi is a place where all things live in harmony
born of order.
Daanvi has the following traits:
 Alterable morphic.
 Strongly law-aligned.
 Enhanced magic: Spells with the lawful descriptor
are maximized and enlarged.
Impeded magic: Spells with the chaotic
descriptor are impeded, requiring a
Spellcraft check (DC 15 + spell level) to
cast successfully.
Daanvi Inhabitants: Formian
worker, formian warrior, formian
taskmaster, formian myrmarch,
formian queen, kolyarut (inevitable),
zelekhut (inevitable).
Manual of the Planes: Axiomatic
creatures (template).
Monster Manual III: Justicator, visilight.
Coterminous: Daanvi exerts no unusual
influence on the Material Plane when it is
coterminous. Superstition tends to link historical
periods of stability to the proximity of Daanvi, but this
claim is unsubstantiated.
Daanvi is coterminous to the Material Plane for one
century in every four.
Remote: Just as Daanvi's proximity has little impact on
the Material Plane, the periods when it is remote likewise
seem to manifest no unusual effects. Daanvi is remote for
one century in every four, separated from its coterminous
periods by a century.
Nan, the Region of Dreams
When mortals dream, they psychically project their minds
to Nan, the plane where dreams play out. Nan
is ringed with dreamscapessmall, temporary envelopes
of pseudoreality where dreamers live their dreams for a
short time. Within the ring, however, exists an entirely
different world.
Magnificent domed cities called up from the formless
void of dreamstuff spread across the inside of the ring of
dreamscapes, allowing the Nan'fya who live there easy
access to their food supplythe psychic energy of dreaming
mortals. Beyond the cities of the Nan'fya, a roiling boil
of dream-born landscapes melt, burn, grow, and dissolve
without any rhyme or reason. Tales persist of a calm eye at