GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
King Boranel (CG male human, aristocrat 2/fighter 8)
rules Breland. A direct descendant of the independent
nation of Breland's first leader, Wroann, daughter of
Jarot, Boranel carries on the traditions of both Galifar
and the Brelish crown. A monarchy, Breland also has a
partially elected parliament that works alongside the king
and the royal court to govern the country. The parliament
makes the laws in Breland, the crown enforces them. The
crown also conducts all business related to foreign affairs
and national security, sometimes informing the parliament,
more often not.
The people of Breland love their king, his vassal lords
respect and even revere him, and the parliament sees him
as fair and just. It is said that the people of Breland will
follow Boranel anywhere, and this has been demonstrated
many times in the course of his thirty-seven-year reign. As
Boranel gets older, concerns revolving around succession
begin to manifest. One plan, mostly discussed quietly and
in secret, suggests that the nation abandon the monarchy
after Boranel's death and turn over more power and
authority to the parliament. Another plan hopes that one
of Boranel's children will fill the vacuum and become a
leader in the same vein as his or her father. So far, none
of the heirs has demonstrated more than a passing ability
at ruling the nation.
To further spread the tenets of democracy, Breland
regularly holds town meetings throughout the realm. At
these meetings, the common folk are recognized and
allowed to state their opinions for the crown and parliament
to hear.
POWER GROUPS
As is true of each of the other nations descended from
the once-grand kingdom of Galifar, Breland enjoys
good relations with all of the eldermarked houses.
Each house maintains emporiums and outposts
throughout the country, and a few use Breland as the
seat of their economic empire. Obviously, the crown
wields much power in Breland, both as a political and a
military entity. Parliament and the nobles vie for their
share of political power, and more than a few hereditary
and elected officials have considerable influence
in the nation. King Boranel holds the various parties
together by sheer force of will and integrity. What could
break down in a chaotic struggle for dominance winds
up working like a well-oiled machine under Boranel's
leadership. When the day comes for the aging Boranel
to relinquish the crown, will someone appear who can
hold Breland together?
House Cadon: The humans of the Mark of
Making currently have a minor crisis of leadership.
Three different leaders oversee the operations of House
Cadon, and each refuses to yield to the authority of the
others. While this division of power has not yet led to an
actual splintering of the house, it has made it difficult
for the family to put its full power and influence behind
any single initiative. One of the three leaders makes his
headquarters in Pran, where he oversees the house's
efforts in Breland and Zilargo, as well as the newest
house initiatives in Darguun. Baron Merrix d'Cadon
(LE male human, artificer 9/dragonmark heir 3), patriarch
of the southern branch of the family, has a pet
project that goes beyond the day-to-day activities of his
house. He operates a secret creation forge deep within
Pran. In this hidden location, Merrix carries on the
experiments of his father and grandfather, continuing
to turn out new Forgeling on a slow but regular basis. He
also has a fascination with the Mournland, often hiring
adventurers to explore the blasted land and bring back
relics related to his family.
House Micaeli: The patriarch of House Micaeli
maintains an enclave in the capital city of Wroat, near to
the royal court and the parliament hall. The leader of the
house has been a friend to King Boranel for many years,
and even joined the king on an adventure or two before
Boranel inherited the throne. The house provides a small
group of retainers to aid the king, using their detection
skills and abilities to keep the king safe and secure. Baron
Trelib d'Micaeli (NG male half-elf, rogue 7/master
inquisitive 2), a half-elf of great power and influence who
has lived in Breland his entire life, has a fondness for the
nation and its king that sometimes gets in the way of his
dealings with the other nations.
House Phaelanmry: The original elf family to carry
the Mark of Shadow, House Phaelanmry maintains its
matriarchal enclave in Pran and has outposts scattered
throughout Breland. The Baron Elvinor Elorrenthi
d'Phaelanmry (LN female elf, bard 7/shadowdancer 4) has
ruled over the house since the early days of King Jarot's
rule. She is the perfect leader for the gregarious and
artistic members of the Entertainers and Artisans Guild,
moving among the ruling class with affable ease. Most see
her men as artists and entertainers, not as the eyes and
ears of her network of spies. She regularly dines with the
movers and shakers of Breland, Aundair, and Thrane,
and conducts most of her house's espionage business on
their behalf.
House Vernalis: Though the family that holds the
Mark of Handling operates out of the Eldeen Reaches,
one of the patriarch's sons oversees an important house
enclave in Breland. This enclave gives the house a bit
more access to the central nations than it can manage
from the Eldeen wilderness. Located outside the village
of Shavalant, the enclave raises magebred creatures as
well as mundane stock. It also boasts a remarkable
animal healing center that serves many of the farms
and ranches scattered throughout northern Breland.
House Vernalis has a number of annexes connected to
the enclave in other parts of the nation, including a
major center in Pran and a smaller ranch on the outskirts
of Wroat.