the center of this storm, but they are most likely figments
of some half-remembered dream.
Nan has the following traits:
 Subjective directional gravity.
 Flowing time: For every 10 minutes spent on Dal
Quor, 1 minute passes on the Material Plane.
 Highly morphic: The stuff of dream alters with the
thoughts of the dreamer. Beyond the dreamscapes,
in the heart of Nan, the Nan'fya can manipulate
matter with ease, while visitors have a harder time
altering the environment.
Enhanced magic: Spells of the illusion school are
extended.
Nan Inhabitants: Nan'fya (all); see page 296.
Remote: Nan last became coterminous to the
Material Plane some forty thousand years ago, at which
time the Nan'fya invaded Xen'drik. The giants of Xen'drik
finally managed to end the war and sever the connections
between the planes, but at great cost: The devastation
of Xen'drik and decimation of the civilization
of the giants. In the process, Nan itself
was thrown off its orbit. As a result, Dal
Quor is always remote in relation to the
Material Plane. The only way to reach
Nan from the Material Plane
is through the psychic projection of
dreaming, and the Nan'fya have been
forced to find new ways to work
their will on the Material Plane.
Dolurrh, the Realm
of the Dead
A place of hopelessness, eternal despair,
and consuming apathy, Dolurrh is the realm
where mortal souls go after death. It is not a
reward. It is not a punishment. It just is.
Dolurrh has the following traits:
 Heavy gravity.
 Timeless.
 Impeded magic: All spells are impeded.
 Entrapping: A visitor to Dolurrh experiences increasing
apathy and despair while there. Colors become
grayer and less vivid, sounds duller, and all experiences
tainted with ennui. At the conclusion of every
day (of subjective time) spent in Dolurrh, any nonnative
must make a Will saving throw (DC 15 + the
number of consecutive days in Dolurrh). Failure
indicates that the individual has fallen entirely under
the control of the plane, becoming an incorporeal
shade, an outsider native of the plane.
Travelers trapped by Dolurrh cannot leave the
plane of their own volition and have no desire to do so.
Memories of any previous life fade into nothingness,
and it takes a wish or a miracle spell to return them.