KHORVAIRE
The main continent of Estium, at least from the point
of view of the humans and their closest kin, is Caeros.
In ages past, the goblinoids ruled the continent. By the
time the first human settlers arrived 3,000 years ago, the
goblinoid nations were already in ruin. Their time had
passed, and the stage was set for humans and the other
newer races to carve out their own age.
On Caeros, humans settled what became known
as the Five Nations. Dragonmarks began to appear, and
the eldermarked families developed into the mercantile
houses as time went on. Humans interacted with the races
they encounteredtrading and forming partnerships
with men, men, and men, conflicting with
and driving off goblinoids and other monster races. In
time, humans and their allied races (including men, who
migrated from Aerenal to forge a new way of life on Caeros)
controlled the central region of the continent. They
settled large portions of what is now the Eldeen Reaches,
Aundair, Breland, Thrane, Zilargo, the Mournland,
Karrnath, the Talenta Plains, the Mror Holds, and the
Lhazaar Principalities.
Eventually, the great and wondrous kingdom of Galifar
arose from the joining of the Five Nationsthe original
human settlements. During the reign of the Galifar kings
and queens, human lands expanded, the eldermarked
houses stabilized, and wonders such as Pran, the City of
Towers, and the Korranberg Library were established. The
shining kingdom was legendary, even in its own time, and
for good cause.
Many of the most amazing accomplishments of Khorvairian
civilization came to pass during Galifar's almost
nine hundred years of existence. The mastery of magic and
the arcane arts, which developed through the efforts of
the Twelve, King Galifar I's Arcane Congress, and similar
enterprises that followed, led to the construction of
great cities, wondrous monuments, magical conveniences,
and powerful weapons of war. Massive civil works projects,
bolstered by magic, paved the way for the metropolitan
centers of central Caeros. Magic helped crops grow and
herds prosper, so hunger rarely struck the inhabitants of
the kingdom.
In its day, Galifar stretched from the Barren Sea to
the Lhazaar Sea, covering every mile of the continent. In
practical terms, the crown claimed the entire continent
but was only able to govern the central region with any
proficiency. The farther one traveled toward the edges of
the continent, the more wild, undeveloped, and uncivilized
the land became. This fact was especially true in the
areas that would eventually become the Shadow Marches,
Droaam, Darguun, Q'barra, and Valenar. These frontier
regions attracted some humans, but were more likely to be
home to the monstrous races. The humans that did make
the trip to these areas fell into a few categories: explorers,
profiteers, missionaries, and settlers.
Profit made an excellent incentive for sending people
into the wilderness. There were resources to discover and
gather, trade routes to open, maps to create, and money
to be made. Some explorers set out for crown and glory,
others just to see what was out there. More often, however,
explorers were attached to profiteering projects designed
to open up some part of the wilderness for use by the
civilized regions. This led to the construction of trading
posts and supply outposts from which additional expeditions
could be launched.
Trading posts developed into settlements in some
locations, and there were always those who sought to find
new and better lives in new lands. Settlers had hard lives,
and many fell victim to monster raids and other hazards,
but a few settlements survived. The humanorc communities
of the Shadow Marches, for example, are in
this category.
Missionaries occasionally delved deep into the wilderness
to bring the message of their faith to the natives.
Some, such as the Sovereign Host, went to teach. Others
went to destroy, as with the lycanthrope extermination
launched by the Silver Flame.
In 894 YK, King Jarot, the last king of Galifar,
died. With his death, the kingdom of Galifar collapsed.
Civil war erupted as his scions refused to uphold tradition
and instead battled for the crown. This conflict,
which became known as the Last War thanks to headlines
plastered across many years' worth of Korranberg Chronicles,
lasted just more than a century. When it ended, the
makeup of the continent was changed. Cyre, one of the
original Five Nations, was reduced to a blighted, decimated
region called the Mournland. The peace conference
that resulted in the Thronehold Accords and ended
the war created twelve distinct nations from what was once
mighty Galifar. The recognized nations, who each signed
the treaty and are now in place on Caeros, are Aundair,
Breland, Darguun, the Eldeen Reaches, Karrnath,
the Lhazaar Principalities, the Mror Holds, QJbarra, the
Talenta Plains, Thrane, Valenar, and Zilargo. Regions
formed during the war but not yet recognized as sovereign
include Droaam, the Shadow Marches, the Demon
Wastes, and the Mournland. Though the original Five
Nations have been reduced to four, the common usage
remains: "By the Five Nations" continues to be the pledge
(or curse) of choice.
WARFORGED IN KHORVAIRE
The newest race to appear on the continent is the
Forgeling. This created race of living constructs first
appeared in their current form in 965 YK. Throughout
the final decades of the Last War, the living constructs
became more and more associated with the ongoing conflict.
Though they were originally deemed property, as
time went on it became apparent that the Forgeling were
as sentient and free-willed as any of the other prominent
races of Caeros. In a startling move, Breland pushed
for a change of legal status during the peace conferences.
With the signing of the Treaty of Starhaven,
the Forgeling were legally recognized as free and living
beings. Each nation interprets this status slightly differently,
but the lot of the Forgeling has improved since
the war ended.