DARGUUN
Capital: Rhukaan Draal
Population: 800,000 (39% goblins, 29% hobgoblins,
13% bugbears, 6% kobolds, 6% humans, 4% men,
3% other)
Exports: Mercenary services
Languages: Goblin, Common, Draconic
In ages past, hobgoblins and other goblinoids controlled
Caeros. Over the course of thousands of years a host of
goblinoid nations rose and fell. The greatest civilization of
this age, the hobgoblin Empire of Dhakaan, bred goblins
and bugbears as slaves and warriors. The ancient empire
has returned, in a weaker, less influential form, in the new
nation of Darguun.
Darguun, carved from what was once the southwesternmost
borderlands of Cyre, contains a variety of
environs. Nestled to the east of the Seawall Mountains,
Darguun has fertile plains to the north, a dense tropical
forest to the east, and a vast moor to the south. The
mighty Ghaal River empties into the Kraken Bay and
literally divides the nation in half, separating the battlefields
of the Last War from the unexplored reaches of
the southern shore.
For thousands of years the goblinoids lurked in the
shadows, hiding deep within the Seawall Mountains and
venturing out only to engage in an occasional raid on
Brelish or Cyran settlements. It was human greed that
finally brought them back into the light. Lord Cail
of House Donric led an expedition into the Seawall
Mountains one hundred twenty years ago (878 YK) to
seek goblinoid recruits for his mercenary armies. He
discovered more than a dozen tribes and clans scattered
throughout the mountains. With clever words and a lot
of gold, Cail won the trust of a few of the chieftains.
A host of hobgoblin warriors and their goblin slaves
returned to Breland with Cail. These savage hobgoblins
were seen as a novelty; it became prestigious for wealthy
aristocrats to employ hobgoblin guards. Then the Last
War began.
Both Breland and Cyre soon turned to House Donric
to supplement their armies, and Donric in turn brought
ever-increasing numbers of goblinoids out of the mountains.
Donric's profits soared, but ultimately this reliance
on goblinoid soldiers had disastrous results. After seventy
years of war, tens of thousands of well-armed goblins and
hobgoblins were spread across the Cyre-Breland border.
With the rise to prominence of the ambitious young hobgoblin
Haruuc, all the conditions for the creation of the
nation of Darguun were in place.
A cunning tactician and charismatic leader, Haruuc
realized that the human and near-human forces in the
region were no match for the combined power of the goblinoids.
He arranged secret meetings with other chieftains,
and through promises, threats, and appeals to racial loyalty
he won most of the tribes to his cause. In 969 YK, the
hobgoblins turned on the people they were supposed to be
defending. Hundreds of humans were slain, while others
fled into neighboring lands or were captured as slaves.
Haruuc laid claim to the area, naming it Darguun and
claiming the title of the Lhesh Haruuc Shaarat'korthe
High Warlord Haruuc of the Scarlet Bladefor himself.
Breland and Cyre were completely unprepared for this
treachery, and neither nation could spare enough forces
to reclaim the land. The King of Breland quickly made
a deal with Haruuc, offering recognition in exchange for
continued protection along the eastern front, but warfare
between the goblinoids and Cyre continued right up until
the Day of Mourning (see The Mournland for details).
Eager to put an end to the war, Karrnath, Aundair, and
Breland formally acknowledged the sovereignty of Darguun
with the Treaty of Starhaven. With clearly delineated
borders defining the new nation, Lhesh Haruuc
swore to restrain his followers from future violence against
the three nations. Thrane, however, has demonstrated disfavor
with the Darguun accords, and the knights templar
of the Silver Flame may yet seek to avenge those killed in
the original uprising.
In general, most nations see the presence of Darguun
as a necessary evil. Far more goblinoids were hidden away
than most people thought possible, and since the rise of
the nation many tribes have migrated from other parts of
Caeros to claim a place in the new hobgoblin domain.
Weakened by the Last War, the Five Nations have neither
the energy nor inclination to battle the goblins. For their
part, the goblinoids have abided by the terms of the treaty.
House Donric has reestablished relations with Haruuc
and with a few of the tribes now residing within the nation
and swearing fealty to Haruuc. Three questions remain:
Will Haruuc be content developing the territory afforded
him by the agreements of Thronehold? Can he actually
keep the many goblinoid tribes that have flocked to his
banner under control? Will he seek to reclaim the glory
of ancient Dhakaan?
INDUSTRIES
Between the mines of the Seawall Mountains and the
plains of what was once southern Cyre, Darguun produces
enough ore and grain to meet the needs of its population.
It engages in relatively little trade with its neighbors,
primarily exporting warriors through its deal with House
Donric. The eldermarked house acts as a broker for
the goblinoid mercenaries, selling their services across
Caeros. The mercenaries, in turn, report back to their
leaders in Darguun with news and information on the
lands beyond their borders.