THE LORDS OF DUST
The Lords of Dust, a chaotic evil cabal of rakshasas and
other fiends, have been playing games with the common
races for thousands of years. They hide in the shadows of
Khorvaire, plotting to free their ancient masters from
the depths of Khyber, scheming to use them to gain
greater power, or spreading pain and suffering among
the common races. The group has bases of operation in
the Demon Wastes and Aundair, among other places. The
cabal uses a stylized silhouette of a broken tower to identify
its members.
The Lords of Dust have little interest in complex
hierarchies. The most powerful fiends occasionally
gather in the ancient capital of the rakshasas to discuss
their current schemes and goals, but they have no leader.
Membership is earned and kept through cunning and
personal power. The organization also includes a host of
242
weaker fiends, lesser rakshasas and other demons content
to serve the scheming lords.
The Lords of Dust are immortal, and their motivations
are difficult for creatures of flesh and blood to
understand. Sometimes their actions serve a clear purpose;
other times they seek to cause chaos for its own sake,
toying with the common races like pawns on a chessboard.
These games can continue for centuries. It is entirely
possible that the destruction of Xen'drik and the collapse
of Galifar were ultimately engineered by members
of the Lords of Dustfiends subtly unraveling the
threads of civilization to watch the suffering and pain
as societies collapse.
The most cunning and clever fiends always search
for ways to increase their own power. Some seek to
release the rajahs they once served. Others explore ways
to drain power from their former masters to exploit as
their own.
The Lords of Dust are masters of deception, and
they rarely deal openly with mortals. Rakshasas can read
the thoughts of others and shift their shape to mimic any
humanoid form, and they have infiltrated many governments,
guilds, and other organizations. Even other
schemers, such as the Aurum or the Cults of the Dragon
Below, have been compromised by the Lords of Dust. But
the plans of the fiends can take decades or centuries to
unfold, and a rakshasa infiltrator may spend an entire
human lifetime waiting for the right moment to make
its move. So, almost any organization can be tricked into
serving the Lords of Dust, at least temporarily. The one
force that knowingly serves the rakshasas is the barbarian
tribes of the Demon Wastes.
Two powerful forces oppose the Lords of Dust: the
dragons of Argonnessen and their agents in the Chamber,
and the Church of the Silver Flame. The dragons
helped to defeat the rajahs in the Age of Demons, and
many among the Lords of Dust still yearn for vengeance.
Whenever the Lords of Dust manage to identify one of
the goals of the Chamber, they will seek to oppose it;
in turn, the dragons do their best to expose or destroy
rakshasa infiltrators and to prevent the release of their
imprisoned masters.
The knights templar of the Silver Flame serve the
same power that holds the rajahs beneath the earth, and
they are relentless in their pursuit of this ancient evil.
Mortal flesh can be weak, however, and members of the
Church of the Silver Flame can be fooled, bribed, or corrupted
by the powerful fiends.
The Lords of Dust are the purest manifestation of
evil to be found on Eberron. There is no place within the
cabal for mortals, except as tools, playthings, and servants.
Most often, adventurers fight against the Lords of Dust,
either directly or by exposing their schemes. It is possible
for heroes to be tricked into serving the Lords of Dust; a
rakshasa in the form of a trusted ally could send them on
a quest that causes more harm than good.