BRELAND
Capital: Wroat
Population: 3,700,000 (44% humans, 14% men, 10%
half-men, 8% men, 7% men, 4% men, 4%
changelings, 4% goblinoids, 3% orcs, 2% other)
Exports: Weapons, armor, tools, processed ore, metalwork,
manufactured goods, heavy industry
Languages: Common, Gnome, Elven, Dwarven, Halfling,
Orc, Goblin, Sahuagin
Breland, one of the original Five Nations founded by the
human settlers of Caeros, mixes a proud agricultural
tradition with a more urban and industrial outlook,
especially in its massive cities. As with the other Five
Nations, Breland's borders have fluctuated over time. It
was named for King Galifar I's daughter, Brey, in the
year 32 YK.
During the reign of Galifar's last king, Wroann
ir'Wynarn governed the nation. King Jarot's youngest
daughter, Wroann was the exact opposite of her twin
brother, Wrogar of Aundair. She was thin and agile, serious,
and a lover of the finer things in life. She also cherished
freedom above all things, and promised to make Breland
a place where people would be judged by word and deed
instead of social class.
When Jarot died, Wroann broke with her twin regarding
the line of succession. Instead of supporting Mishann
of Cyre's claim to the throne, Wroann gathered her vassals
and declared her own intention to rule the kingdom.
Ironically, the freedom-loving nation of Breland was one
of the key instigators of the Last War, for her leader wanted
to spread her ideas of liberty and increased democracy to
all by force and sword.
Prior to the Last War, the nation of Breland covered
all the land it holds today, as well as what is now Zilargo,
Droaam, and the Shadow Marches. Currently, the kingdom
consists of the land between the Graywall Mountains
and the Howling Peaks, reaching as far north as the Blackcaps
and Lake Galifar, and as far south as the southern
coast of the continent.
The current ruler of Breland, King Boranel
ir'Wynarn (CG male human, aristocrat 3/fighter 8),
traces his lineage to Wroann. Boranel has ruled Breland
since 961 YK and proudly signed the Treaty of Starhaven
to help end the Last War. In his time, Boranel has
led his army into battle for six major engagements with
enemy forces, participated in two quests to Xen'drik, and
personally fought the Droaam champion to end a particularly
long and bloody period of conflict between the
two nations.
Today, Breland stands as one of the most powerful
nations of Caeros. With a large population and a robust
industrial center, Breland could have continued fighting
the Last War for many years. Indeed, some believe it could
eventually have won the war. King Boranel, however, grew
tired of constant battle. He longed for the peace of a united
Galifar, a peace unknown in his lifetime. When an opportunity
presented itself to forge a new peace, Boranel put
his enthusiasm and powerful force of presence behind the
effort. He has negotiated a separate treaty with Zilargo,
making the gnomish nation his staunchest ally in the postwar
environment. He has a grudging respect for Kaius,
King of Karrnath, but that respect is tempered by a feeling
of uneasiness he gets whenever he's in the man's presence.
As much as he loves and respects the Aundairian people,
Boranel doesn't trust the flowery words that spill from
the ambitious Queen Aurala's pretty mouth. Tension also
exists between Breland and Thrane; the theocracy to the
north may bend its knee to a lawful good god, but it has a
reputation for aggressively spreading its beliefs by sword
and spell.
Breland continues to engage in skirmishes with the
warbands of Droaam. The monster clans regularly test
the borders and make raids into western Breland, and
Breland intelligence believes that a sizable force infests the
Graywall Mountains. In the south, the Brelish navy works
to keep the sea lanes safe from pirates. Though the navy
suspects that the pirates have ties to the Lhazaar princes,
no definitive proof has been uncoveredat least not since
the Thronehold Accords went into effect.
INDUSTRIES
Breland's agricultural output ranks it among the top cropproducing
nations. It doesn't export many of its crops,
however; much of what it produces goes to feed its growing
population. The northern half of the country consists of
rich farmland, while the southern climate is perfect for
cultivating a diverse selection of tropical crops.
The rest of Caeros knows Breland for its manufactured
goods and heavy industry. The smelts and forges of
Pran, for example, produce relatively inexpensive weapons
and armor. While these aren't as well made and ornate
as those turned out by the Mror Holds or Karrnath, they
work just fine and cost significantly less. Pran also turns
ore and other raw materials into processed goods; House
Cadon and the shipwrights of Zilargo purchase much
of Sham's output for use in the construction of ships and
vehicles. Other industrial centers can be found in Wroat,
Galethspyre, and Starilaskur.
All of the eldermarked houses maintain emporiums
and outposts throughout Breland, and all of them have
extensive operations in Pran, the City of Towers. House
Micaeli, House Phaelanmry, and one branch of House Cadon
all maintain headquarters in Breland; House Vernalis
has an important enclave here as well.