The inn at First Tower was a pleasant enough establishment. It was
said to be the first tower ever built in the vicinity of Pran, but since
he was still a day's walk from the City of Towers, Halharan assumed
that the legend was used to garner more money from the travelers
passing through.
The Nantangil sat in a corner, sipping water and watching the small
crowd. The people of this land were so different from those of Adar
and Riedra, more robust, more basic. They intrigued him. The inn's
door swung open then, letting a blast of wind and rain rush in. A large,
cloaked figure stepped inside, slamming the door behind him. Halharan
got a flash of danger from the figure, but before he could isolate it and
focus his will, the stranger jumped around the room. The Nantangil
noticed that others were also hidden within cloaks, sitting scattered
throughout the room.
Something was wrong here, Halharan thought, just as a flash of pain
exploded inside his mind. The pain's source was external; it belonged to
someone in the inn's guest rooms. They were . . . killing her!
Halharan started to rise just as the new arrival threw back his hood.
A hobgoblin ? Here ?
'Tor Darguun!" the hobgoblin shouted as he slid a weapon from
under his cloak. The other cloaked figures revealed themsmen as goblins
and kobolds, each shouting "For Darguun!" in turn, though
one kobold seemed confused and cheered for Droaam instead.
Before Halharan could act, a halfling barbarianone of the inn's
patronscharged into the goblins with wild abandon. The hobgoblin
was moving as well, coming up on the halfling's blind side.
Evil must be dealt with, no matter its source, Halharan reminded
himself, and he leaped to place himself directly in the hobgoblin's path.
Halharan, a 4th-level Nantangil psion, grew up and
received his psionic training in a monastic community
in the mountains of Adar. After completing his training,
he journeyed to Pran to fight the agents of the
Inspired in Caeros.
Outside Pran, a battle that erupted in a roadside
inn threw him together with a ragtag group of adventurers,
including a halfling barbarian, a half-elf cleric,
and a human sorcerer. Unsure how to pursue his own
mission, he has joined with these others out of convenience,
although their common foe appears now
to be the Blood of Vol rather than the Dreaming
Dark. Evil is evil, Halharan reasons, and is worth
fighting whatever its origin.