THE DEMON WASTES
Capital: None
Population: 600,000 (45% humans, 28% orcs, 2% halforcs,
25% demons [rakshasa, zakya, others])
Exports: None
Languages: Common, Ore, Infernal
North of the Eldeen Reaches, life gradually seeps out of
the eart,h. Lush forests fade to a broad tableland of dried
soil and cracked rock. Further north, the elevation rises
into the bleak chain of mountains known as the Shadowcrags,
then drops dramatically. The land beyond, a
highland plateau, is broken into badlands, a network of
canyons and mesas that forms a natural labyrinth leading
out to a plain of blackened sand and volcanic glass. This
is the Demon Wastesthe last remnants of the rakshasa
civilization that ruled Caeros millions of years before
the rise of goblinoids or humans. Amid ruins so old that
they barely resemble the buildings they once were, fiendish
creatures search for fresh blood while ancient forces watch
from the shadows. In this realm of death and desolation,
long-forgotten treasures and primeval secrets hide in the
blasted wastes.
This ruined land's history, as pieced together by
scholars at the University of Wynarn and elsewhere, is
incomplete and sometimes full of contradictions, but it
paints a picture that can help outsiders understand the
forces still operating in the Demon Wastes. According
to these sages, Estium has known at least five distinct
ages over the course of its existence. The Age of Dragons,
the earliest age still remembered in the current era, was
a time of amazing wonders that dwarf even the greatest
arcane achievements of the common races. This was a
time when the world was one and not split into above,
below, and between. Some legends say that the planes
were bound to the world during this period, pulled from
distant locations and attached via magic of unbelievable
power. This was the age of the progenitor wyrms, the first
and greatest of all dragonkind. Of these powerful creatures,
three stood above the restSiberys, Estium, and
Belmead. The legends conflict as to whether these three
created the Prophecy or simply discovered it and set it in
motion, but all agree that eventually Siberys and Belmead
became embroiled in a death-struggle over it. The powers
wielded by these progenitor wyrms rocked the very fabric
of existence until the world lay ruined and dying. Only
then did Estium, last of the progenitor wyrms, intervene,
shattering the Prophecy and using the energy thus
released to separate the rivals and remake the world. In
the end, the legends say, great Siberys, dismembered
and dying, became the glowing ring that surrounds the
world. Belmead, on the verge of victory when Estium
intervened, was sealed within the world. And Estium
took his place between the rivals, healing the desolate
world by becoming one with it. The last conscious act
of Siberys and Estium was to create their descendants,
filling the world between with Vestiges and other related
species of dragonkind. This spell of creation didn't stop
with dragonkind, however. Estium blossomed with all
manner of living things. Belmead, not to be outdone,
shaped dark life of his own from within the depths of
Estium's imprisoning folds. The fiends were born,
slowly seeping up through the cracks in the earth, rising
with the molten eruptions of volcanic pits, and bubbling
up from the depths of the sea.
As the newly remade world cooled, the descendants
of the progenitor wyrms were primitive, almost mindless
creatures. But the fiends, led by rakshasas, zakyas, and
night hags, were cunning and vicious. It wasn't long before
the Age of Demons took hold of Estium.
This was a hellish period for the world, when fiends
ruled the land. Eventually, the legends say, the dragons
discovered the Prophecy and realized their power and
heritage. They rose up against their fiendish overlords.
After a long and terrible struggle, the Vestiges won the
day but paid a great price. The couatls, allies and as much
the children of the union of Estium and Siberys as the
dragons, sacrificed almost all of their number to send the
greatest of the fiendish lords back to the depths of Belmead
and bind them within the Dragon Below.
When the great war between the fiends and the
dragons ended, the lesser fiends that had not been imprisoned
or destroyed went into hiding. Many returned to the
place from which their lords once ruled, the land called
Fah'lrrg in the Infernal tongue but now known simply as
the Demon Wastes. Here, among the ruins of their shattered
fortresses and the open pits to Belmead from which
their lords once emerged (and within which they now lie
imprisoned), the rakshasas formed a secret society called
the Lords of Dust, dedicated to one day releasing the lords
of darkness and recapturing the hellish glory of the Age
of Demons.
Today, there is little civilization in the harsh and
infertile Demon Wastes. Rocky cliffs surrounded by deadly
reefs make up the coastal regions, volcanic activity rumbles
across the land, and fiendish creatures and deadly spirits
roam the interior. Amid rivers of lava, bubbling pits of
noxious stew, and barren wasteland, a few barbaric tribes
of orcs and humans struggle to survive. These savage warriors
avoid the rakshasa cities, fearing the power of the
ancient forces that lurk in the crumbling ruins.
INDUSTRIES
The human barbarian tribes who eke out an existence in
the desolate plains between the Demon Wastes' forbidding
coast and the twisting canyons of the Labyrinth have no
interest in making contact with the rest of Caeros.
Indeed, they work hard to keep the eldermarked houses
and other foreign powers from exploiting the resources
of the land. The barbarians actively protect narstone and
Estium-dragonshard deposits that dot the landscape, as
well as the relics of the ancient rakshasa civilization that
can be found throughout the Demon Wastes.
If an exported commodity of any kind exists in the
Demon Wastes, it is deception and deceit. The Lords of
Dust spread their fiendish schemes throughout Caeros,
working in the shadowssometimes for centuries
on endto promote chaos, destruction, and their own
personal plans for power and conquest.
158
LIFE AND SOCIETY
Two distinct barbarian groups occupy the Demon Wastes.
The Ghaash'kala clans inhabit the Labyrinth, while the
Carrion Tribes wander the plains that lie to the west of
the canyons.
The members of the Carrion Tribes are the more
numerous of the barbarian hordes. Descended from
Sarlonan refugees stranded in the Wastes more than a
millennium and a half ago, the Carrion Tribes consist of
vicious human savages who worship the malevolent spirits
that haunt the Wastes. Over the centuries a handful of
different tribes have emerged, each following a different
rakshasa rajah. No matter which demon they pledge allegiance
to, the Carrions are bloodthirsty nomads known
to slaughter any strangers they come acrossincluding
members of other Carrion Tribes. While they worship the
ancient fiends, the Carrion Tribes also fear the rakshasa
ruins and so avoid such locations. Occasionally a tribe
attempts to break through to the Eldeen Reaches, which
results in a brutal conflict with the Ghaash'kala clans. The
Carrion Tribes are extremely primitive and generally use
hide armor and wooden or stone weapons, though a few
may possess superior equipment scavenged from their
victims. The Carrions practice ritual scarring and mutilation;
each tribe uses distinctive techniques designed to
give its warriors the features of fiends.
Ghaash'kala roughly translates as "ghost guardians" in
the Orc tongue. The Ghaash'kala barbarians believe they
have a sacred duty to prevent evil from leaving the Demon
Wastes. Primarily orcs mingled with a handful of humans
and half-ores, the Ghaash'kala clan members are fierce
but not bloodthirsty by nature. They act to keep travelers
from entering the Wastes, preferring to convince with
words before drawing weapons. On the other hand, they
consider anything that emerges from the Wasteswhether
wild beasts, barbarians, or travelers returning from an
expeditionto be hopelessly tainted, and they strike against
such creatures without warning or mercy.
The Ghaash'kala clanmembers are more sophisticated
than their counterparts in the Carrion Tribes; they do
not possess metal armor or masterwork gear, but they use
studded leather, metal swords, and bows. Clan warriors
carry the brand of the binding flame; they believe that
these brands help to protect them from demonic possession.
Four Ghaash'kala clans are spread throughout the
Labyrinth, where they share a common priesthood and
have strong diplomatic ties to help them carry out their
sacred mission.
GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
The Carrion Tribes revere the dark spirits of the Wastes.
Half-fiends whose ancestors mingled their blood with the
rakshasa lead most of the tribes, while a handful of priests
and warriors possessed by evil spirits rule the rest. Leadership
of a tribe is often quite precarious; any warrior has
the right to challenge a chieftain to battle to reaffirm the
favor of the spirits. The tribes constantly feud with one
another, and violence and bloodshed fill up daily life.
Among the Ghaash'kala, the priesthood determines
leadership of each clan. A chieftain usually rules until
death, but the priests have the power to install a new leader
at any time. Each clan guards its own section of the Labyrinth,
but priests and warriors gather four times a year
for religious ceremonies, displays of skill, and to share
counsel and information.
POWER GROUPS
Few established power groups operate in this desolate land.
The only humanoids found in the Demon Wastes belong
to the barbarian tribes (though House Tharashk is seeking
a way to exploit the region's mineral resources). The
barbarian tribes and the fiendish factions operating in the
land are described below.
The Lords of Dust: This cabal of rakshasas and other
fiends originated in the Demon Wastes and secretly spreads
its influence across the length and breadth of Caeros.
In the Demon Wastes, however, the fiends don't have to
hide their true nature. For this reason, no matter how far
they wander to manipulate the populace and hatch their
complex plots, they return home at intervals to revel in
their fiendish glory. The Lords of Dust are few in number,
but their effective immortality makes them as powerful
as it does unfathomable. These fiends serve the causes
of chaos and destruction, seeking to set in motion slowly
unfolding plans that will eventually lead to the collapse of
order and virtue.
Some members of the Lords of Dust never venture
beyond the Demon Wastes, content to play cruel games with
the barbarian tribes who worship them. When not engaged
in such sport, these rakshasas and other fiends seek to find
ways to release their ancient demonic masters who were
long ago trapped beneath the broken land. Others among
the Lords of Dust look to the trapped fiends as sources of
power, content to let their masters remain imprisoned as
long as they can draw energy with which to make themsmen
more formidable.
A faction within this ancient order is made up of
Lords of Dust who travel the world, opposing the dragons
of the Chamber (see page 229) and working to promote
chaos among the nations of the common races.
The Maruk Ghaash'kala: The Labyrinth is a convoluted
series of canyons and depressions carved into the
flat highland plain as though by gargantuan claws. No part
of Belmead, the Dragon Below, rests so close to the surface
of Estium as in the Labyrinth. In ages past, the orcs that
eventually became the Ghaash'kala entered the Labyrinth
for the express purpose of keeping the horrors of the Wastes
trapped and cut off from the rest of the world. One of the
oldest of these clans, the Maruk, has a long and bloody
history of fulfilling this mission.
The Maruk clan guards the central passages through
the Labyrinth, the routes most often used by the Lords of
Dust and their agents. The sly and clever rakshasas often
manage to slip past the vigilant eyes of the Maruk guards,
but the sacred warriors of the binding flame are not without
their resources. They can see through disguises used
by the fiends, and when a fiend's disguise is seen through,
deadly battles can erupt in the depths of the canyons. The
Maruk clan suffers terrible casualties as a result of these
constant battles; the only reason the clan has survived to
159
the present day is because of the steady infusion of new blood.
Orc barbarians from the Shadow Marches, human scouts
from the Eldeen Reaches, and even youths from the Carrion
Tribes often hear the call of Kalok Shash, a divine beacon
that draws them to the Maruk Ghaash'kala. As a result, the
Maruk clan counts more humans and half-orcs among its
members than any other Ghaash'kala clan and possesses
slightly better equipment. The Maruk clan also has a higher
percentage of paladins than the other three clans.
Members of the Maruk Ghaash'kala are somber
and serious, prepared to die at any time in battle with
the fiends of the Demon Wastes and other horrors spit
up from the depths of Belmead. Torgaan Shashaarat (LG
male orc, fighter 3/paladin 6) leads the clan, while the
elderly priest Lharc Suusha (LG female orc, cleric 9 Kalok
Shash) guides it.
The Moon Reavers: While most of the Carrion Tribes
worship the rakshasa rajahs and their lesser servants, the
Moon Reavers revere the night hagsfiends who spread
fear by the dark of the moon. This clan is made up mostly
of barbarians, but because it specializes in terror tactics
and guerrilla warfare, a number of rogues are also among
the membership. Whenever possible, the Reavers prefer
to stalk isolated prey using methods designed to frighten
them prior to making a kill. They draw this fear out for
as long as possible, reveling in the terror of their victims.
Clan members make masks and other decorations using
the bones and skin of their victims. They file their teeth
and let their nails grow long in emulation of the fiends
they admire.
Karka Darkbane (NE female human barbarian 4/rogue
2) leads the Moon Reavers. She is a cruel woman twisted
in mind and body by a night hag while she was still within
her mother's womb. In battle, Karka wields a mace of terror,
a gift from her sinister patron, the night hag who marked
her as its own before she came into the world.
Night Hags: The rakshasas share the Demon Wastes
with the night hags. Much fewer in number than the rakshasas,
a mere nine night hags live in the Wastes. The hags
spend most of their time engaged in mystical studies beyond
the realm of mortal ken (and mercifully so), exploring the
ancient ruins for arcane tomes from the Age of Demons.
Most of the night hags react with hostility when approached
by strangers, but a few can be dealt withprovided the visitor
has something to offer and minds her manners. The
widely respected hag Kyrale (NE female night hag, 16 HD)
serves as an ambassador and mediator among the fiendish
powers active in the Wastes, and mortals wishing to negotiate
with the Lords of Dust or other fiends often seek her
out to act as an intermediary.
The Plaguebearers: This Carrion Tribe reveres an
imprisoned force of filth and pestilence. Its members seek
to turn the power of their lord against their enemies. Plaguebearers
smear their weapons with dung; a victim struck
with a coated weapon must succeed on a DC 12 Fortitude
saving throw or fall victim to filth fever (incubation 1d3
days, damage 1d3 Dex and 1d3 Con). Plaguebearers are
typically covered with weeping open sores and angry welts
from various infections, but they are remarkably resistant
to the effects of diseases and poisons.
In battle, the Plaguebearers become wild berserkers;
they close ranks as quickly as possible and fight to the
death, praying that infection will claim the lives of any
enemies who survive the battle. Fulgrun Bloodboil (CE
male human half-fiend, barbarian 11), a hideous individual
surrounded by a horrible stench of pus and rot,
leads the clan.
RELIGION
The Carrion Tribes worship the fiendish powers that
dwell within the Wastesthe imprisoned rakshasa rajahs,
the night hags, and the lesser spirits that dwell in the shadows.
Barbarians are seen as sacred warriors who undergo
a form of possession when they rage in battle. Each tribe
has slightly different beliefs, depending upon the nature
of the spirit they revere. But all the tribes seek to water the
Wastes with the blood of their enemiessomething that the
rakshasas find most entertaining.
The Ghaash'kala worship a force they call Kalok
Shash, the binding flame. The priests say that the flame
consists of the souls of noble warriors, and that this force
holds the powers of darkness at bay. Kalok Shash is the same
force revered by the Church of the Silver Flame, although
it could be difficult to convince a knight of the Flame that
a branded orc barbarian is a champion of the faith. When
Ghaash'kala barbarians rage, they seek to submerge their
identity into the flame, drawing on the strengths of the
warriors of the past and losing all fear of death. Noble warriors
are often called to serve as paladinsalthough the
Ghaash'kala paladin presents a very different image than
the silver-armored knight of the Flame.
In all, the Ghaash'kala clans see it as their sacred
duty to guard the Labyrinth passages from escaping
fiends, rampaging horrors, and other evils that might
seek to slip past the Shadowcrags and invade the Eldeen
Reaches and beyond. Through the light of the Kalok
Shash, new members are constantly called to join the
clans and keep the ghost-guardians strong lest the dark
powers overwhelm them.
MAJOR CITIES
There are no significant humanoid cities in the Demon
Wastes. The nomadic Carrion Tribes constantly move across
the desolate plains as they hunt prey, avoid enemies, and
search for sustenance in the bleak land. The Ghaash'kala
clans maintain a number of small towns and villages, generally
established within natural caves or in well-concealed
cliff dwellings high above the flash flood line in the gorges
of the Labyrinth.
Ashtakala (Metropolis, Special): The one city of any
real significance in the Demon Wastes is Ashtakala, the
last citadel of the Lords of Dust. Surrounded by a permanent
storm of sand and volcanic glass and shielded from
all forms of divinatory magic, Ashtakala rarely reveals
itself to human eyes. Explorers who manage to penetrate
the eternal storm find a bizarre yet beautiful metropolis,
a citadel built from basalt and brass. Compared to the
shattered ruins spread throughout the rest of the Wastes,
Ashtakala seems impossibly alive, filled with thousands of
demons and other fiends.
160
While Ashtakala appears as it did a million years or
more ago, it is a city of ghosts and shadowsall an illusion.
In addition to the illusory inhabitants and the spirits
of ancient things that still wander the decaying streets
masked by powerful illusions of the city's zenith, a handful
of zakyas and rakshasas and a host of minor fiends serve
the great Lords of Dust who congregate here. The Lords of
Dust occasionally meet in this shadow of their ancient city,
and rakshasas return to Ashtakala to scheme and to study in
the vaults and libraries, reading scrolls and tomes that will
crumble to dust if ever removed from the city. The power
that preserves the image of Ashtakala transforms anyone
who enters the city; visitors find their clothing and equipment
altered to match the archaic fashions of the city, as if
by a disguise self spell. The city of fiends is a dangerous place
for mortals to visitonly the luckiest of intruders caught
by the rakshasa lords get to die quickly.
All fiends return to Ashtakala eventually, sometimes
spending centuries in its cold embrace, to remind themsmen
of the glory that was once theirs. The illusion comforts
them with images of the Age of Demons, but it also
fuels their hatred for the Vestiges who tore down their era
and left only these ruins for the rakshasas to occupy.
Festering Holt (Hamlet, 200): The nearest humanoid
habitation to Ashtakala is a charnel pit of ramshackle structures
and ill will. How this hamlet came into existence and
why the fiends allow it to remain is one of the many mysteries
of the Wastes. What is known is that Festering Holt
serves as a way station of sorts in the middle of nowhere. It
sits in the western shadows of the Icehorn Mountains, not
far from the northern twists of the Labyrinth and a few
days south of Ashtakala. While the Holt doesn't have many
comforts to speak of, it can look like paradise to a traveler
coming across it in the midst of the Wastes. A visitor to the
Holt must be as strong and capable as possible, however, for
the inhabitants of the hamlet make a tradition of taking
advantage of the weak and the unprepared.
The Holt has a livery of sorts, though the last time it
actually housed mounts not even its proprietor can say.
The general store, tavern, and inn can be found under the
same roof, in the largest structure in the HoltDead Before
Morning. The innkeep, Karbal (LE male bugbear, fighter
5), opens the doors every evening and starts the festivities
with the same toast: "Drink well, lads, because it's a sure bet
we'll all be dead before morning!" The name stuck.
Goblinoids, orcs, a few humans, a handful of the
other common races, and even a few monsters have
found their way to the Holt. Though the place has an air
of despair, it is really one of the few beacons of light in
this desolate land. However, travelers should be aware that
there's another saying in the Holt"What the Wastes don't
kill, the Holt eats."
Rotting Blade (Thorp, 40): This settlement, hidden
between the Shadowcrags and the Lake of Fire, houses a
small community of kobolds, humans, and orcs pulled from
the Eldeen Reaches and the Shadow Marches. The community
has one purposeto serve the will of the night hag
Vraria (NE female night hag, 10 HD). The night hag has
set herself up as queen of Rotting Blade, using her powers
and the abilities of the lesser fiends who serve her to keep
the population docile and in line. When her temper or
appetites get the better of her and one or more of her subjects
is used up, the night hag or her fiendish servants go
in search of new blood to add to the population. Tales told
in the western regions about Vraria coming in the night
to take bad little boys and girls are not far from the truth.
Visitors to Rotting Blade see only a small, poor thorp on
the surface, for the night hag remains hidden and her
subjects are forbidden to talk about her when "guests"
come to call. Once Vraria gets a sense of the capabilities
of a visitor, she plans an appropriate greeting. If travelers
appear to be too powerful (and a few adventuring parties
have passed this way over the years), Vraria stays hidden
and orders her subjects to send them on their way at the
earliest opportunity.
Blood Crescent (Hamlet, 82): House Tharashk
established this outpost shortly before the end of the
Last War. Built on the shores of Crescent Bay and regularly
supplied by ships from Yrlag, a large town across
the bay in the Shadow Marches, Blood Crescent serves
as House Tharashk's long dreamed-of foothold in the
Demon Wastes. From this outpost, the house sends parties
to scout for resources such as deposits of narstone (see
page 92) and open pits of Belmead eldershards. Finding
the resources isn't difficult; surviving the dangers of
the Wastes is. That's why the outpost commander often
employs adventurers to either serve as guards for his scouting
teams or even as scouts themsmen when he seeks to
enter a particularly treacherous stretch of the Wastes. The
ruthless, no-nonsense Baruk (LN male half-orc, ranger
4) commands the outpost, which maintains a company of
elite house guards (fighter 2) in addition to the scouts and
laborers necessary for finding and transporting exploitable
resources from the Wastes. The outpost has survived
three lost expeditions, seven assaults by the Carrion Tribes,
and four attacks by random fiends and monsters. This history
has given the place a very military outlook; many of
the longtime residents of Blood Crescent feel as though
they have been under near-constant siege.
IMPORTANT SITES
The Demon Wastes are sparse and barren. Fire pits and
active volcanoes fill the air with smoke and ash, while
cauldrons of boiling mud give off a sulfurous stench. The
ruins of ancient fiend cities litter the plains, appearing as
oddly shaped piles of stones worn down by time or halfburied
under layers of lava. Occasionally a structure survives
the eons intactstrange, alien architecture formed from
metal fused with volcanic glass. Rakshasas and barbarians
have looted most of the ruins over the last hundred millennia;
only those guarded by powerful spirits still hold
ancient treasures.
The Labyrinth: A massive scar mars the otherwise
flat plains that stretch beyond the Shadowcrags.
Like wounds gouged out of the earth by fierce talons of
gigantic size, the twists and turns of the canyons and
depressions form a barrier separating the Shadowcrags
from the western plains. This is the Labyrinth, where
the Dragon Below meets the Dragon Between in a land
of ruin and desolation.
This vast network of canyons and mesas forms a natural
maze of stone. The wind in the canyons sounds like the
keening of hundreds of ancient banshees, and sometimes
the air inexplicably fills with the smell of fresh blood or
the bitter tang of sulfur. Rockfalls and flash floods can
make short work of unwary travelers, and it is all too easy
to get lost in the twisting channels of these badlands. In
addition, cracks and crevices sometimes open that drop
into the very heart of Belmead itself, and fiery rivers of
molten lava flow haphazardly within the winding depressions.
Fiends and other foul creatures wander the canyons,
engaged in activities that most sane minds would rather
not examine too closely.
The canyons are also home to the dedicated members
of the Ghaash'kala clans. These orcs, humans, and halfores
patrol the Labyrinth and fight to the death to keep
anyone from entering or exiting the Wastes. They maintain
a number of small settlements that resemble fortresses
built into and around secure caves in the canyon walls.
The largest, most permanent of these are Ghaash Dar in
the northern canyons and Maruk Dar in the south.
As the roc flies, the Labyrinth is approximately two
hundred fifty miles wide and over seven hundred miles
long. On foot, a typical journey covers roughly twice that
distance (assuming the travelers avoid getting lost). A few
more direct routes are known to the Ghaash'kala and the
Lords of Dust, but they usually can't be persuaded to share
such information.
The Lair of the Keeper: At the northern edge of the
Demon Wastes, a vast chasm in the earth leads down into
the depths of Belmead. Legends describe many perils that
lie beneaththe River of Blood and Bone, the Chamber of
Secret Thoughts, the Legion of the Forgotten Deadbut
most deadly of all is said to be the Lair of the Keeper. This
place hallowed to one of the Dark Six, the Sovereign Lord
of Death and Decay, contains many trapped souls held by
the Belmead eldershards that grow from the walls and
floor. Legends say that those who venture here to rescue
others often become trapped in turn.
Both the Lair of the Keeper and the chasm leading
to it are powerful manifest zones linked to Dolurrh, the
Realm of the Dead. All spells are impeded here. Those
who enter the chasm are subject to the normal entrapping
effect of the plane of Dolurrh (see page 95), except
that those who fall prey to the effect are absorbed by and
imprisoned within the dark eldershards rather than
becoming shades. They retain their memories but are
unable to free themsmen.
Those who follow the teachings of the Dark Six believe
that the Keeper himself operates within this foul place.
Whether the soul-trapping properties of the Lair of the
Keeper have anything to do with gods or just occur due to
the interaction of naturally binding Belmead shards and
the manifest zone is a debate for scholars and theologians
to engage inand many do, at great length.
Lake of Fire: Volcanoes and fire pits fill the Demon
Wastes. At night, the clouds of ash and smoke glow with
the reflected light of lava and flame. Stories say that each
162
volcano marks the prison of one of the mighty fiends
trapped below the earth at the end of the Age of Demons.
The most impressive of these is the Lake of Firea vast
volcano with a crater almost a mile across. There are a host
of legends about the Lake of Fire: stories of fiendish monsters
that have emerged from the lake, of powerful artifacts
thrown into the lava now waiting to be recovered, and of
the mighty fiend bound below that waits to be unleashed.
Some say that sorcerers and wizards who travel to the lake
can draw on its power to perform astonishing feats of
evocation. True or not, the Lake of Fire is an impressive
landmark that seems to act as a beacon for the fiendish
creatures of the region, making it a dangerous place for
mortal travelers to visit.
Desolate: Originally named Greenholt, then Newholt,
and finally Kymar's Folly, this remote outpost has
at various times been a House Larenthil trading post, a
Thrane hermitage, and the center of a small Aundairian
colony. Now universally known by its nickname Desolate,
the place has been thrice settled and thrice abandoned.
Each time its inhabitants have all disappeared in a single
night, their fate unknown, leaving all their worldly goods
behind. The last occurrence was early in the reign of King
Jarot (862 YK); the outpost has lain deserted ever since,
the nearest inhabitants being the lighthouse keepers on
Starkcrag Rock.
Even though abandoned for more than a century, the
city is remarkably intact. Trees are few on this low-lying
point, set off from the rest of the Wastes by sheer, unclimbable
cliffs that tower above the city. Most structures in the
city are made of native stone, as is the city wall. Only now,
with the Last War finally over, are plans for Desolates
resettlement underway (see below).
ADVENTURING IN
THE DEMON WASTES
The Demon Wastes are barren and deadly, and there
are few reasons to risk the many dangers of the land.
The first is simple greed. In addition to mineral wealth,
ancient and powerful relics from the Age of Demons are
hidden among the ruins, protected by powerful magic,
couatls, zakyas, or other deadly spirits. Adventurers may
come to the Wastes to prevent this power from falling
into the hands of otherssuch as the Order of the
Emerald Claw or the Dreaming Dark. Heroes who are
battling the Lords of Dust or their minions may need to
venture into the Wastes to uncover the secrets of these
cunning fiends, or to prevent the release of one of the
mighty rajahs.
There are many threats to deal with in the Demon
Wastes. The area has no trade roads, so travel is slow and
perilous. The Ghaash'kala guard the passes through the
Labyrinth, while the Carrion Tribes lie in wait beyond,
hungry for blood and battle. Beyond these mortal foes,
fiendish dire animals, half-fiends of many kinds, zakyas,
and rakshasas fill the land. In addition, the land itself
is a threat. Travelers must make hourly Fortitude saving
throws to avoid damage from the extreme heat rising out
of the volcanic pits or the extreme cold that fills the plains
(see Cold Dangers and Heat Dangers, Dungeon Master's Guide
pages 302303). Survival checks to find food and shelter
receive a 3 circumstance penalty due to the inhospitable
nature of the Wastes.
ADVENTURE IDEAS
A priest of the Silver Flame has a terrible vision of
a disaster brewing in the Demon Wastes. Working with
the Plaguebearers, one of the Lords of Dust is preparing
a ritual that will transfer the power of the great spirit of
pestilence to a living rakshasa. The ritual will occur at the
next new moon; if it succeeds, the new rajah will spread
terror and blight through the Eldeen Reaches as it moves
toward Aundair.
The Lair of the Keeper holds thousands of souls in
bondage. A passage in the draconic Prophecy calls for the
release of the soul of an ancient sage. But can she be pried
from the depths of Belmead, or will would-be rescuers
simply join her in eternal imprisonment?
Aundair proposes to resettle Desolate with Cyre
refugees, giving them their own autonomous area. Adventurers
are needed to scout ahead and ferret out any hidden
dangers, to escort the settlers to their new home, and to
establish a new city guard to protect this lonely outpost.
Can they prevent history from repeating itself?
A scholar has discovered the location of a powerful
artifact, hidden in a crumbling vault and guarded by a
powerful spirit (a couatl). But
this sage is actually one of
the Lords of Dust. The
rakshasa cannot enter
the vaultit needs to
trick mortals into overcoming
the guardian
and removing the
artifact, after which
it intends to
seize the mystical
weapon
for itself.