THE SHADOW MARCHES
Capital: Zarash'ak (unofficial)
Population: 500,000 (55% orcs, 25% humans, 10% goblins,
7% half-orcs, 3% other)
Exports: Eberron dragonshards, herbs
Languages: Orc, Common, Goblin
Commonly, the region known as the Shadow Marches
conjures images of a fetid backwater where illiterate
humans mingle with orcs and other foul creatures,
and practice strange rites by the light of the moons.
These images are accurateto a point. A desolate land
of swamps and moors, the Shadow Marches have been
orc territory for more than thirty thousand years. The
region has suffered through a terrible war against the
daelkyr that scarred the land, stranded horrible creatures
in the shadows, and divided the orc tribes. The daelkyr
were eventually defeated, but the schisms caused by the
war remain.
Approximately fifteen hundred years ago, humans
landed on the western shore of the Shadow Marches. These
refugees fled Sarlona to escape the growing power of the
Inspired and collided with the orcs. Despite periods of
racial violence, over the millennia humans and ores have
formed close ties. Today, humans and ores live alongside
each other, in savage tribes and civilized communities.
Almost all the half-ores of Khorvaire can trace their
ancestry back to the Marches.
Set behind the monster-filled wilderness of Droaam,
the isolated Shadow Marches missed most of the events that
occurred in central Khorvaire. The rise of the Kingdom
of Galifar went unnoticed by the clans of the Marches, as
did many of the defining moments in the kingdom's history.
The Shadow Marches might have remained isolated
to the present day if not for a House Sivis fact-finding
expedition that discovered Eberron dragonshard deposits
in the region five hundred years ago.
The gnomes of House Sivis planned to extract the
dragonshards, but the Marches clans had no intention
of allowing outsiders to strip their land. The encounter
brought another resource to light, however. The Sarlonan
refugees who had come to the Shadow Marches had
developed the Mark of Finding, and over the generations
the mark had been spread across a number of clans. The
encounter with House Sivis spurred the marked clans to
action. Over the next few years, these clans joined together
to form House Tharashk, developed the powers of the
mark, and used it to locate the major dragonshard deposits
in their realm. In time, this new house established the port
of Zarash'ak as a point of contact with the outside world
and was eventually recognized by the other dragonmarked
houses as a legitimate member of their elite fellowship.
Over the past three centuries House Tharashk has grown
in size and influence; Tharashk prospectors, inquisitives,
and bounty hunters can be found across Khorvaire. While
House Tharashk has emerged into the light, however, the
Shadow Marches as a whole remain one of the dark places
of Khorvairea mysterious region hiding ancient secrets
and deadly creatures.
INDUSTRIES
The Eberron dragonshard fields of the Shadow Marches
are among the richest in Khorvaire, and House Tharashk
makes most of its profit shipping shards to the interior
of Khorvaire. This commerce has resulted in an alliance
with House Lyrandar, since that house maintains the shipping
lanes between Zarash'ak and other cities, much to
House Orien's disappointment.
In addition to Eberron dragonshards, a variety of rare
herbs and plants grow in the depths of the marshes. Of
interest to alchemists and wizards in Aundair and Zilargo,
these resources have quickly become valuable as secondary
exports. The most common of these, hathil root, is
described on page 91.
LIFE AND SOCIETY
There are two distinct cultures in the Shadow Marches:
the original orc tribes and the clans formed by human
settlers.
The majority of the tribes are still entirely made up
of orcs, though a few have drawn humans and half-ores
into their ranks. They hold to ancient traditions and
a simple lifestyle, largely focused on religious rituals,
hunting, and gathering. The Gatekeepers in particular
believe that they must remain close to nature and thus
shun the trappings of civilization. Gatekeeper tribes
are generally friendly to travelers, while the tribes that
revere the Dragon Below are usually hostile to strangers.
The Gatekeepers follow druidic traditions, while
clerics and sorcerers guide the tribes of the Dragon Below.
Both kinds of tribes contain barbarian warriors. The
barbarian is seen as an heroic ideal, submerging reason
to draw on natural instinct or on the guidance of the
Dragon Below.
The clans are an even blend of orcs and humans
and reflect the traditions and cultures of each race. This
admixture has created unique forms of art, music, food,
and religion. Clan life is less primitive than that of the
tribes; the clans build large halls and work with iron and
steel. Many clans revere the Dragon Below, which colors
their attitude toward outsiders. Some are blatantly hostile
to strangers. Others welcome guests with open arms,
only to strike with poison or treachery and dispose of the
unfortunate travelers in unpleasant rituals. However, for
every murderous clan, there is a friendly clan happy to
welcome strangers and provide shelterin exchange for
reasonable reimbursement.
Over the last three centuries, House Tharashk has
become a culture unto itself. Elements of both the Gatekeepers
and the Cults of the Dragon Below have influenced
Tharashk, but constant contact with the other houses and
nations of Khorvaire has also played a role. The house
has the same blending of human and orc culture found
among the clans, but it has formed larger communities
and deals with outsiders on a regular basis. Since only
humans and half-ores can bear the Mark of Finding,
the leaders of the house are drawn from these races. The
house includes a significant (and highly respected) population
of orcs, who put their natural strength to work as
miners, guards, and smiths.
198
A number of goblin tribes scattered across the marshes
are more primitive than their cousins in Droaam or Darguun
and generally avoid all contact with other races,
although they occasionally raid clan settlements or attack
parties of explorers.
GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
The Shadow Marches are a geographic region, not a
nation. More than two dozen clans and tribes are scattered
throughout the Marches. Blood holds these groups
together, blood and tradition. Blood and kin demand
fierce loyalty, while blood spilled calls for vengeance
and vendetta. Leadership traditions vary considerably
among the different communities. The strongest warriors
or the oldest druids lead the barbarian tribes,
depending on whether the tribe has given its allegiance
to the Dragon Below or the Gatekeepers. The clans are
generally patriarchal, with the oldest male of clan blood
leading the community.
POWER GROUPS
There are few significant power groups in the Shadow
Marches. While the region has the greatest concentration
of the Cults of the Dragon Below in Khorvaire, the
different clans and tribes vary in their beliefs and do not
work together, and their goals rarely take them beyond
the Marches. Most of the dragonmarked houses are represented
in Zarash'ak but have little presence or power
beyond the port city.
House Tharashk: House Tharashk was born in the
Shadow Marches, and its greatest influence is still concentrated
in the region. In addition to its presence in Zarash'ak,
Tharashk has three strongholds and four village communities
scattered throughout the Marches. Tharashk has little
influence over the daily lives of the clans or tribes, but it is
the largest unified force within the Marches and as such has
become a power to be reckoned with.
The Gatekeepers: A number of orc tribes follow the
ancient traditions of the Gatekeepers. While the tribes
themselves have no formal connection, the druids and
their warriors sometimes join together to battle horrors
that rise from Khyber or other threats to the natural order
in the Marches.
RELIGION
Two religions dominate the Shadow Marchesthe druidic
path of the Gatekeepers and the Cults of the Dragon
Below. The orc tribes are evenly split between these two
beliefs, while the clans and the goblin tribes are largely
allied with the Dragon Below. However, the adherents
of the Dragon Below follow dozens of different paths;
each tribe and clan has its own unique variation. Some
are sinister and malevolent; others are merely disturbing.
Those clans that do not follow the Dragon Below
have fused a variety of different religions to create new
and unusual systems. Some have turned the astrological
studies of the Gatekeepers into an entire religion; others
have taken individual gods from the Sovereign Host and
given them different names and forms. The deities most
commonly invoked are Baalkan the Beastlord (Balinor),
Baaldra the Protector (Boldrei), and Ollarasht the
Gambler (Olladra).
MAJOR SETTLEMENTS
Most of the communities of the Shadow Marches are
extremely small, either thorps or hamlets. Tharashk has
one city, three strongholds (small towns), and four small
villages. The Tharashk strongholds host Sivis agents to
help maintain communication with the other settlements,
but otherwise the services of the dragonmarked houses are
limited to the city of Zarash'ak.
Zarash'ak (Small City, 5,960): Because overland
travel through Droaam or the Eldeen Reaches can be
extremely dangerous, most people who need to do
business in the Marches travel by ship to the port city
of Zarash'ak, sometimes called the City of Stilts due
to the supports that keep it above water. Known for
its exotic cuisine and music, Zarash'ak offers the rare
exports of the land without the difficulty of navigating
the marshes. House Tharashk oversees the city, but
clans and tribes often come here to sell crafts and other
goods, or to celebrate religious rituals such as the Great
Feast of Baaldra.
IMPORTANT SITES
The orc inhabitants of the land never built great cities,
even in their days of glory. However, the daelkyr established
a strong presence in the
Shadow Marches when they
first invaded Khorvaire, and
a few fiendish ruins remain
in the depths of the swamp. The Gatekeepers shun these
areas and attempt to keep others from locating them. The
Cults of the Dragon Below, on the other hand, revere
these ancient sites. A considerable number of passages
to Khyber lie hidden within the marshes, from which
aberrations and other disturbing creatures slip into the
surface world.
The Shadow Marches contain a number of manifest
zones linked to Xoriat and Kythri. Most of these zones overlap
the sites of daelkyr ruins, which might be the reason the
daelkyr came to the Marches to begin with. Within these
areas wild magic applies (see page 149 of the Dungeon Master's
Guide), and transmutation or chaotic spells are cast at +1
caster level. These areas often contain dimensional seals that
block the effects of the manifest zone; if the seal is destroyed
the usual effects of the zone return.
In zones with an extremely strong connection to Xoriat,
the flow of time is affected; see the distorted time trait in
the description of Xoriat on page 99.
Vvaraak's Cave: Known as the Scaled Apostate,
Vvaraak was the dragon who taught the orcs the traditions
of the Gatekeepers some sixteen thousand years
ago. Vvaraak died long ago, but her lair reportedly contains
many mystical secrets relating to the Draconic
Prophecy. The location of the cave was lost during the
war against the daelkyr, and it is one of the mysteries of
the Marches. Should it ever be found, the Gatekeepers
would be greatly offended if outsiders despoiled this
most holy site.
Pond of Shadows: Deep in the swamps toward the
north of the Glum River, a still, mist-shrouded pool of
inky black water waits to reveal secrets that have passed,
that are present, and that have yet to be. Legends claim
that one can stare into the black water and the mists that
rise off it to see omens and portents related to Eberron,
the Land Between. The price for such knowledge doesn't
come cheaply; the ties to chaos and madness, so strong
throughout the Marches, are doubly so here. When the
conditions are right, a visitor can take 1 point of Wisdom
drain to glean a secret from the prophetic pond. Stories
tell of the Old Woman of the Swamp, a gnarled human
(or orc, or goblin, depending on who tells the tale) who
has surrendered all sanity to learn the secrets of yesterday,
today, and tomorrow.
Eberron Dragonshard Fields: The Shadow Marches
are blessed with the largest concentration of Eberron
dragonshards known to exist in Khorvaire. These fields
lie in shallow pools within swamps and marshes, where the
shards' encasing stone shells hide beneath the tepid, scumcovered
water. Some of the stone shells have cracked open,
and in such cases a subtle crimson light glows beneath the
surface of the pool.
The largest single source of Eberron dragonshards
in the Marches can be found on the western bank of the
Glum River, between Glumtown and Zarash'ak. Hard to
find and harder to harvest, the dragonshard fields reluctantly
give up their prizes, even to the most determined
prospectors. The encasing geode-like stone shells, not
unlike large eggs in shape, are difficult to open without
damaging the crystalline shards hidden within them.
Plus, working through muddy water that ranges from waist
deep to deeper than most humans are tall, with its share
of hostile and dangerous creatures, can be challenging
as well.
The larger fields, marked and cataloged by House
Tharashk or one of the more powerful tribes in the area,
usually have guards to protect them from poachers. The
field between Glumtown and Zarash'ak, for example, is
patrolled around the clock by Tharashk militia and protected
by various spells and enchantments. As for harvesting,
the process is slow and arduous, and House Tharashk
only processes one or two stone shells every month. From a
single shell, depending on its size, the house can produce
a handful of large dragonshards or as many as three dozen
small shards (such as those used to create spellbooks and
magic items).
ADVENTURING IN
THE SHADOW MARCHES
No trade roads cut through the Shadow Marches, and few
paths are clearly marked. Travel through the swamp must
be accomplished on foot or by boat. Due to the wide variety
of poisonous creatures and plants in the region, Survival
checks to acquire food take a 2 circumstance penalty,
and this same penalty is applied to any attempt to track a
target through the murky interior. The Marches are full
of dangerous natural creaturescrocodiles, vipers, giant
insects, and oversized spiders, along with will-o'-wisps,
shambling mounds, a few green hags, and a host of sinister
spirits. Aberrations and oozes also plague the land,
some dating back to the war against the daelkyr and some
that have more recently emerged from Khyber, as well
as other monsters called up by the Cults of the Dragon
Below. Chuuls, gibbering mouthers, and dolgrims (see
page 282) can all be encountered by the unlucky in the
midst of the swamp.
Adventures in the Shadow Marches may be based
on greed; the Eberron dragonshard fields here present
an opportunity for considerable wealth. Any adventure
may tie to the ruins of the daelkyr, as well. An expedition
could be sent to explore these ancient ruins, to find an
artifact spoken of in legend, or to prevent a mad villain
from gaining the power of the sinister daelkyr. Plots
involving the Cults of the Dragon Below could also draw
adventurers to the Shadow Marches, where they must
face the elders and champions of a particular cult sect.
In addition, a half-ore hero could be summoned to the
Shadow Marches to help his or her relatives in one of the
clans or tribesa family connection he or she may not
even have known about. Feuds present a constant danger;
the Gatekeepers might seek help dealing with the Cults
of the Dragon Below.
ADVENTURE IDEAS
Most of the daelkyr cities are decrepit ruins halfburied
in the mire. During a particular conjunction of the
rings of Siberys, the twelve moons, and Eberron itself, an
ancient tower rises out of the swamp, seemingly perfectly
preserved. The Cults of the Dragon Below, the Order of
the Emerald Claw, and many others wish to acquire the
treasures and knowledge that may be hidden in this dark
fortress. Who knows what guardians lurk in its walls of
stoneand, with the tower's return, can the daelkyr themselves
be far behind?
A clan allied with the Cults of the Dragon Below
calls an ancient horror from the depths of Khyber. The key
to defeating this menace is an artifact created by disciples
of the dragon Vvaraakbut this weapon is now in the hands
of a rival sect of cultists.
Vvaraak's lair is said to contain lost passages from
the draconic Prophecy that might furnish a crucial link
revealing the time and place where Eberron will be most
vulnerable to another daelkyr invasion. A University of
Wynarn expedition attempting to locate the site hires
adventurers to accompany it into the marshes.
The body of a goblin trader, renowned for his ability
to sniff out lost hoards, recently floated down one of
the muddy tributaries of the Glum River, only a few weeks
after he had set out boasting he was on the verge of the find
of a lifetime. He still wears in a pouch around his neck
a fragmentary map, a sketch of an unusual orrery, and a
strangely carved dragonshard.
A daring group of thieves, powerful in both magic
and melee, have made off with the treasury from House
Sivis's Zarash'ak branch. That alone would be bad enough,
but the gnomes suspect another house's complicity in the
crime and hence wish to hire unaligned adventurers to
follow the thieves into the swamp and return with the
purloined items. To make matters worse, one of the stolen
items contained a stash of highly incriminating documents
that House Sivis is anxious to retrieveunopened
and unreadas soon as possible.