Whether coming from or going to Pran, if you travel by
land you must pass through First Tower.
All the residents of First Tower earn a living by catering
to the travelers moving through the settlement. The
inn employs most of them, for travelers need to eat, drink,
relax, and have a place to stay while waiting for the next
outbound caravan or for their papers to clear so they can
enter the City of Towers.
The lightning rail station, the caravan stables, a general
store, and the crown's checkpoint make up the rest of
the thorp, as well as a scattering of houses where the locals
live. Royal clerks stationed at the checkpoint examine the
identification and traveling papers of everyone seeking to
travel to Pran proper. The checkpoint maintains a small
garrison that enforces order in First Tower and keeps the
place safe from bandits and marauders who sometimes slip
out of the King's Forest.
Wroat (Metropolis, 80,870): The second largest
city in Breland, Wroat serves as the Brelish capital and a
center of trade and commerce. Not as densely populated
or as overwhelming as Pran, Wroat nevertheless holds
its own as one of the great cities of Caeros. Wroat,
whose skyline stretches along both sides of the Howling
River, is located at the junction where that waterway meets
the Dagger River. Two large templesone dedicated to
the Sovereign Host, the other to the Silver Flame
dominate the Street of Worship. Other impressive structures
include Brokenblade Castle, Parliament Hall, the
Citadel, the Wroat campus of Morgrave University, and
the Galifar Museum.
As the nation's capital, Wroat is a hotbed of political
activity. The aristocracy and the elected members of
parliament spend a lot of time here, debating the issues
of the day and keeping the wheels of government turning.
Diplomats from all over the world maintain lodgings
and embassies in the city's Foreign District. The crown
operates out of Brokenblade Castle, where King Boranel
and his family live and work for a sizable portion of the
year. The heads of all the royal agencies also operate out
of Wroat, where they can be close to both the king and the
parliamentary leaders.
Boranel's court travels with the king, but it displays
all of its grandeur and majesty here in the capital city.
Keeping most of the traditions of ancient Galifar alive, the
court conducts business, plans festivities, engages entertainment,
and otherwise handles the duties of serving the
crown and king. The Brelish court is known far and wide
for the lavish celebrations it holds, as well as for the fair
and just treatment it dispenses to its subjects.
Vathirond (Large Town, 3,100): The town of
Vathirond, situated on the southern banks of the Brey
River, serves as a watchpost and trading center. It sits
across the border from the nation of Thrane, and near
the line that once separated Breland from Cyre. If a
place in Breland suffered more than its share during the
Last War, Vathirond would be that place. It constantly
struggled against both Thrane and Cyre at different times
during the war, and even contended with river raiders
from Karrnath once or twice over the century of fighting.
Now the town tries to put aside its hatred for Thrane as
it works to honor the Treaty of Starhaven. With one eye
kept toward the north, it turns another eye to the Mournland.
Nameless horrors have begun to slip into Breland
from the east at an alarming rate, and Vathirond border
patrols seek to either prevent this or raise an alarm when
something they can't deal with appears out of the deadgray
mist that seems to mark where Breland ends and the
Mournland begins.
The Brey River provides the main transportation
into and out of Vathirond, though an Oraite trade road
connects the town with Starilaskur to the west. The
eastern end of the road stretches into the Mournland,
disappearing beyond the mist as though beckoning travelers
to visit the ruins and wreckage of Cyre. While the
mist has not moved any closer since the Mournland came
into existence, the presence of the dead nation eats away
at the inhabitants of Vathirond. The town has lost more
than a quarter of its population to disease, rampaging
horrors, or because the people have fled to find safer,
less desolate ground elsewhere in the kingdom. Since the
death of Cyre and the birth of the Mournland, Vathirond's
population has dwindled from more than four
thousand to its present level of just over three thousand.
King Boranel sees this development as a trend he must
find a way to change before this strategic location turns
into a ghost town.
New Cyre (Large Town, 4,200): What started as
a refugee village in the wake of the destruction of Cyre
has rapidly grown into a large town with over four thousand
inhabitants. While the disaster that destroyed the
nation to Breland's east wiped out much of the Cyran
population, those living near the western border had
enough time to cross over into the Brelish countryside
ahead of the strange wall of dead-gray mist that eventually
stopped just a few miles to the east of Vathirond and
Kennrun. King Boranel took pity on the refugees and
established the camps that evolved into a village and then
a town.
Today, New Cyre sits on a trade road southeast of
Starilaskur, in the middle of Breland's eastern farm
country. The prince of the city, Oargev ir'Wynarn (LN
male human, aristocrat 3/fighter 1), is the last son of Cyre's
ruling family. He was serving as an ambassador to Breland
when the mysterious disaster befell his nation and has
since become the unofficial leader of the Cyran refugees
scattered throughout the other domains. He hopes to one
day gather all of Cyre's homeless children to this refuge
in Breland. His other desire revolves around discovering
the truth behind the destruction of his kin and country,
and exacting revenge on the guilty parties. Until then, he
graciously accepts the hospitality of Breland (even if the
Brelish have given him unwanted land in the middle of
nowhere) and works to rebuild the confidence and honor
of his subjects. He serves as mayor of New Cyre while also
playing the role of a king in exile.
The people of New Cyre work as farmers while their
prince plots and plans the future glory of the Cyran crown.
Prince Oargev regularly seeks out news and information
from those foolish or brave enough to venture into the
Mournland. He has been known to fund expeditions into

the blasted, wasted remains of his once-proud nation,
hoping to discover some hint or clue that points to the
cause of Cyre's demise. In the meantime, Oargev works to
improve the plight of his people and dreams of rebuilding
Cyreeither in a restored Mournland or someplace
else entirely.
Argonth (Small Town, 1,600): Once, the mighty
forges of Pran churned out new and amazing weapons
of war. With the help of Cadon makers and other
arcane crafters, the great forges crafted various types of
Forgeling, powerful vehicles, and the wondrous moving
cities. Of these latter creations, only two remain active to
the current day. The most famous of these is Argonth, the
mobile fortress.
Argonth, a massive structure that appears to be part
fortress, part cliffside, and part cityscape, floats above the
ground and slowly moves from place to place. The town
might be along the shore of Silver Lake one day and sliding
beside the Droaam border the next time someone tries to
find it. The floating town was designed as a mobile fortress
to help defend Breland during the Last War. Now it serves
as a border patrol, circumnavigating the Brelish borders
as it moves north, then east, then south, and back again,
tracing a slow but steady path along the lines that divide
Breland from Droaam, the Eldeen Reaches, Aundair,
Thrane, the Mournland, and Darguun.
The Captain of Argonth is Alain ir'Ranek (LG male
human, paladin 4). He leads the troops and support
personnel that make up Argonth's citizenry. The mobile
fortress moves at a steady two miles per hour as it traces its
patrol route, but its speed can be increased to as much as
ten miles per hour when the need arises. The increased
speed requires a lot of power and puts a strain on the
fortress's resources, and thus such speed is called upon
only in emergency situations.
The citizens of Argonth are all in the Breland military,
and the town operates under military protocols. In
the past, it has served as a base of operations for enemy
engagements, as a support center for stationary castles,
and as an attack platform when Brelish troops crossed
into enemy territory. Now its role is to patrol and protect
Breland from raiders, marauders, and the potential threat
of hostile armies from neighboring nations. It also spends
a lot of time near the border with the Mournland, using its
offensive and defensive capabilities to deal with creatures
emerging from the obscuring mists.
Every few weeks, Argonth stops to take on supplies.
When this occurs, a market grows up around the town
where those nearby can come to trade and share news with
the soldiers harbored within the mobile fortress. Visitors
rarely receive permission to enter Argonth, so the next
best thing for them is to interact with the soldiers and
support personnel at a market festival.
Argonth has become home to a number of Forgeling
veterans who have pledged their swords to the Brelish
crown. Two of the more influential Forgeling are Big
Bara (LN female personality Forgeling, ranger 3), who
commands a company of scouts known as Bara's Breakers,
Argonth, the mobile fortress
and Finias Wandhand (CG male personality Forgeling,
wizard 2), who never fought in the Last War but instead
became fascinated with the arcane arts. Currently, Finias
is under the tutelage of Eera ir'Jalon (LN female human,
wizard 9), Argonth's master of magic.
IMPORTANT SITES
Breland, one of the original Five Nations founded by the
human settlers of Caeros, became part of Galifar's
kingdom, when the legendary leader decided to create a
united empire. In addition to the fabled towers of Pran
and the amazing accomplishments of Galifar and his
heirs, Breland contains a number of sites that date back
to the goblinoid empires of old and even beyond. A few
natural wonders found within Breland s borders are also
worth mentioning.
The Dragon's Crown: A ring of jutting stones rises
from the earth within the heart of Breland s farm country.
The ring consists often stone monoliths, each more than
fifteen feet high, that sit slightly askew in a circle around a
patch of uneven ground some thirty feet across. The ring
of stones resembles a massive crown of jagged rock. Known
far and wide as the Dragon's Crown, the place has long
been the subject of speculation, outlandish legends, and
the occasional dark ritual. Some believe that giant hands
built the Dragon's Crown in ages past.
Nothing much grows within or near the Crown. On
some nights, especially when one or more moon is full
and bright, the monoliths glow with an eerie inner light.
It is said that on these nights, the monoliths sing, but
not many are willing to visit the site after dark to prove
this tale one way or another. It is also said that cultists
use the site to conduct dark rituals, especially members
of the various sects devoted to the Dragon Below; except
for the occasional carcass discovered lying in the center
of the Crown, no evidence of such activities has ever
been gathered.
The King's Forest: A great tropical rain forest fills
the southeastern portion of Breland, from the Dagger
River in the west to the Trolan River (now part of Zilargo)
in the east, from the Howling River in the north to the
continent's southern coast. The King's Forest is a hunting
preserve that once belonged to the Galifar king and now
falls under the protection of Breland's crown. The Knight
Rangers patrol the rain forest, watching for poachers and
trying to keep in check the bandits and brigands who hide
within its depths. Since the Treaty of Starhaven, the
eastern portion of the forest has been part of Zilargo;
mindful of this, the Brelish rangers rarely cross the border
in pursuit of their duties. Therefore, it isn't unusual for
bands of brigands to flee across the border as they try to
evade the rangers.
Once, the King's Forest covered the entire southern
half of Breland, cut in half by the mighty Dagger
River. Logging and cultivation have reduced the forest's
size over the centuries, and it became necessary for a
royal decree to preserve the portion of the forest that
remains. All kinds of tropical plants, insects, and wildlife
fill the King's Forest. Hunting, except by permit or
royal invitation, is strictly prohibited. In the fall season,
the king and his court, as well as honored guests, enter
the King's Forest to participate in a Great Hunt. Exotic
animals of all types are the subjects of the Great Hunt,
and King Boranel loves to let his hunting tigers run
at the head of his party. Sometimes a dire or horrid
animal falls to the hunters (a stuffed horrid ape, killed
by King Boranel during the Great Hunt of 966, decorates
a hall in Brokenblade Castle), but more often they
wind up with a variety of exotic but mundane birds,
lizards, and mammals.
The Jungle Boys, a band of bloodthirsty brigands,
hide within the King's Forest. The band is variously estimated
to have anywhere from a dozen men to as many as
a hundred brigands and a mock court of beggars, harlots,
and other hangers-on. An outlaw known as Tree Viper
(CE male half-orc, ranger 1/rogue 2) leads the Jungle
Boys. The band periodically raids the thorps, villages,
and plantations that line the edge of the forest, and
sometimes it ambushes caravans and travelers as they move
through the forest. The Knight Rangers have tangled
with the Jungle Boys on more than one occasion, but they
haven't been able to capture their leader or put an end to
their marauding.
Black Pit: A terrible crack in the earth, Black Pit
seems to lead to the darkest depths of Belmead itself. The
great chasm can be found in a secluded valley in the Blackcap
Mountains, where toxic vapors rise from deep within
the gaping hole. Fearful sounds accompany the foul vapors,
as though the depths themsmen were writhing in pain and
torment. Some have tried to descend into Belmead using
Black Pit, but the sheer walls of the chasm are treacherous
and deadly creatures are said to inhabit the caves that
honeycomb the pit walls.
A small village sits at the edge of Black Pit. It is a
dreary, desolate place, where despair hangs in the air as
thick and toxic as the vapors rising out of the chasm. Here,
all manner of thieves, murderers, and deserters from the
war gather to hide and live. A thriving black market exists
in the village of Black Pit (which names itself after the
nearby chasm), where those who have stolen great items
of power often come to hole up until those hunting them
lose interest.
Sterngate: The fortress of Sterngate protects Breland
from Darguun invaders. It sits at the end of Marguul Pass,
and for more than six hundred years it has defended the
nation from marauding goblinoids and other threats
from the Seawall Mountains. Today, the militia assigned
to Sterngate watches for Darguun warbands and sometimes
has to drive such bands back into the mountains
from which they emerge. The frequency of such incursions,
despite the Treaty of Starhaven, demonstrates
the fragile nature of the current Darguun government.
Captain Toris (LN female changeling, fighter 3), a veteran
of the Last War, distinguished herself as a goblin
fighter to be reckoned with. Her hatred for goblinoids
sometimes clouds her judgment, but King Boranel rests
easier with Sterngate under Toris's command. The militia
also keeps an eye on the Zilargo border, but relations with
the gnome nation are so good as to make strict vigilance
there unnecessary.