KARRNATH
Capital: Korth
Population: 2,500,000 (52% humans, 18% dwarves, 10%
halflings, 8% half-elves, 8% elves, 4% other)
Exports: Ale, dairy, glass, grain, livestock, lumber, paper,
textiles
Languages: Common, Dwarf, Elf, Halfling
Of the Five Nations founded by the human settlers of
Khorvaire, Karrnath has the strongest military tradition.
Famous as the birthplace of Galifar himself, the great king
who unified the Five Nations, the nation consists of lush
forests, fertile plains, and extensive waterways flowing from
snow-covered mountaintops to the sea. Once, the borders of
Karrnath included most of the land east of Scions Sound,
covering what is now the Mror Holds, the Talenta Plains,
Q'barra, and the Lhazaar Principalities. Today, the nation
stretches from Scions Sound and the Cyre River on the west
to the Ironroot Mountains in the east, and from Karrn Bay
in the north to the start of the Talenta Plains in the south.
The nation's name has not changed since the ancient days
before the founding of the Five Nations, when Karrn the
Conqueror not only established the country that still bears
his name but also tried to conquer and unite all of Khorvaire
under his rule. Centuries later it was another Karrn,
one of King Galifar's sons, who rededicated the nation to
himself in 32 YK, the same year when the Five Nations officially
adopted the names of Galifar's five eldest children.
During the reign of Jarot, Galifar's last king, Kaius I
governed the nation. Third born of KingJarot's children,
Kaius was a tall, whip-thin man with intense eyes and a
sharp mind. With the death of his father, Kaius joined
his siblings Thalin of Thrane and Wroann of Breland
in rejecting their eldest sister Mishann's claim to the
throne. The Last War began as a two-sided affairCyre
and Aundair on one side, attempting to uphold the tenets
of Galifar succession; Breland, Thrane, and Karrnath on
the other, rejecting the crowning of Mishann but unsure
how they wanted the question of succession to be settled.
It wasn't long before each scion decided that he or she was
meant to rule the kingdom, and the initial alliances collapsed
in blood and fury.
The current ruler of Karrnath, King Kaius ir'Wynarn
III, uncannily looks just like his great-grandfather, that
scion of Jarot from whom his name derives. Kaius came to
power in 991 YK and quickly became one of the most vocal
proponents of peace in all the land. He was instrumental
in convincing the other nations to attend peace talks at
the ancient capital of Thronehold, and consequently was
the first to sign the Treaty of Thronehold.
Today, Karrnath works hard to keep the current peace
from failing. Without any children of his own as yet, Kaius
has nonetheless exchanged his own brother and sister as
well as the heirs of his most prominent nobles with the royal
families of the other nations to assure cooperation and continued
peace. He has taken in two of Boranel of Breland s
children, Halix and Borina, to help ensure a lasting peace
and promote friendship between the two nations. Karrnath
seeks to improve relations with Aundair and Thrane, two
of the nations it fought most fiercely during the war. It
continues to have a good relationship with the Mror Holds,
one of its most staunch allies throughout the war. In the
south, to curb continued aggression from the Valenar elves,
Karrnath has established a separate alliance with the halfling
clans of the Talenta Plains. This alliance has allowed
Karrnathi troops to set up forts in halfling territory for the
mutual protection of both nations.
INDUSTRIES
Karrnath's forests, especially the densely packed Karrnwood
that covers the northern portion of the nation,
provide some of the most notable exports sold throughout
Khorvaire. Karrnathi pines produce valuable timber that
is sold in the distant markets of Lhazaar and Breland. The
Karrns have also perfected the process of making paper,
and Karrnathi paper draws a premium price throughout
the continent.
Dairy farms throughout the nation provide milk,
butter, and cheese to the markets in Korth and Atur, and
some of the more exotic cheeses sell for more than their
weight in silver in distant cities and towns. Beef, pork, and
poultry raised in Karrnath also rank among the best on the
continent. House Ghallanda in particular prefers to serve
Karrnathi beef and pork at its inns and fest halls. House
Orien provides an invaluable service with its magically
cooled caravan wagons and other methods for preserving
food stocks during transport.
Another beloved Karrnathi creation, served in Ghallanda
hospitality enclaves from the Eldeen Reaches to the
Lhazaar Principalities, is Nightwood ale. Nightwood ale
has a thick, full flavor to match its dark, robust body that
glistens with thin streams of golden bubbles. Barrels of
Nightwood ale and wheels of Karrn bitter cheese command
such a high price in foreign markets that an honor guard
of Deneith sentinels usually accompanies and protects
these shipments.
As in the other nations, the dragonmarked houses
maintain emporiums and outposts throughout Karrnath
in order to conduct business. Two houses run their vast
enterprises from within Karrnath's borders. House
Jorasco's Healers Guild headquarters occupies a massive
complex in Vedykar, where it also operates a training
institute for the healing arts. House Deneith makes its
headquarters in Karrlakton, where the Sentinel Tower
rises high above the rest of the city.
LIFE AND SOCIETY
An urban pulse beats through the heart of Karrnath's
metropolitan centers. Here, a vibrant middle class runs
shops and other businesses, engages in industrial labor,
and takes advantage of everything that the largest cities
east of Scions Sound have to offer. Beyond the metropolitan
centers, a rural sensibility holds sway. Here, farms
and ranches of all descriptions stretch out across the
fertile fields and plains. Even so, Karrnathi farms can't
produce enough food to feed the metropolitan centers
of Korth, Karrlakton, Atur, Rekkenmark, and Vedykar,
so the nation imports foodstuffs from Aundair and the
Eldeen Reaches to supplement its needs. Agreements with
176
the two western nations are relatively new, but they have
already helped turn the tide of the food shortages that
spread through the nation and caused the most recent
famine of 996 YK.
A rich military heritage lies at the heart of Karrnathi
society, and every able-bodied man and woman must serve
time in either the Karrnathi army or navy. Many families
have traditions of military service, with members turning
mandatory enlistment into distinguished careers. Those
wishing to forego the career path must still serve at least
two years before returning to civilian life, and during some
parts of the war, mandatory service lasted as long as eight
years for some soldiers and sailors.
The dead have become an important part of Karrnathi
society. Not the intelligent deathless of Aerenal,
the undead of Karrnath consist mainly of zombies and
skeletons that have been called forth to protect the nation.
While some of the nobles and religious leaders objected to
Kaius Is plan to employ undead troops early in the Last
War, the king ignored them and used his well-armed and
armored zombies and skeletons to great advantage. Royal
corpse collectors would scour battlefields to restock the
undead forces, and even today they continue to build regiments
of mindless undead in secret that can be mustered if
needed. A few regiments of undead troops remain active,
defending Karrnath's borders and fighting against the
Valenar elves out on the Talenta Plains.
Karrnath's summers tend to be hot, wet, and short,
while the winters are cold, snowy, and depressingly long.
Storms roll across Scions Sound all year long, and particularly
cold blasts can sweep in from Karrn Bay without
warning. This climate has made the Karrns a hearty and
robust peoplesomewhat dour, but with strong constitutions
and a regimented mind-set. When the winter nights
grow dark and cold, the typical Karrn enjoys a blazing fire,
a hank of meat, a tankard or two (or more) of rich ale, and
a large chunk of cheese.
The Military Academy of Rekkenmarkhas trained Galifar
officers for hundreds of years and continues to excel as
the premier training facility in all of Khorvaire. Before the
start of the Last War, nobles from each of the Five Nations
sent their sons and daughters to Rekkenmark for at least part
of their education. Karrnath hopes to once again welcome
students from all over Khorvaire into the halls of Rekkenmark
Academy, but in a war-weary world only a handful of
students from outside the nation have so far applied for and
been accepted into the facility since the war's end.
The Twelve, the arcane institute funded by the dragonmarked
houses (see page 245), has its permanent campus
in Korth. During the war, the Twelve tried to remain
neutral but got as caught up in things as everyone else.
Now, rebuilding and trying to restore a regular arcane
curriculum, the Twelve competes with the Arcane Congress
in Aundair for promising students.
House Orien maintains major trade roads throughout
Karrnath, as well as lightning rail extensions that connect
major cities within the nation with the Mror Holds
and the Talenta Plains. In addition, smaller roads and
paths crisscross the countryside, making travel throughout
Karrnath relatively easy.
GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
King Kaius III rules the nation of Karrnath. The greatgrandson
of Kaius I, son of Jarot and first king of Karrnath
after the collapse of Galifar, Kaius III has held the crown
for less than a decade. He ascended the throne upon his
twentieth birthday, taking over from his aunt, the regent
Moranna, who had been ruling since the unexpected
death of his father, King Jaron, shortly after Kaius III
was born.
Karrnath suffered heavy losses during the course of
the Last War. For all its military and naval might, widespread
famine and rampant disease might have ended
Karrnath's bid for power before the third decade of the
war was over. Thanks to its necromancers and corpse
collectors, however, Karrnath was able to field a powerful
army of skeletons and zombies even when its living
forces became depleted. The royal family has weathered a
number of setbacks and threats to the crown over the years,
always coming through with the support and confidence
of most of the nobles and vassal lords. As for the people of
Karrnath, they might not have loved all of their rulers, but
they always feared and respected them. A fierce patriotism,
flamed by slogans and a constant call to arms, kept the
people focused on winning the war despite the hardships
and suffering they had to endure.
Descendants of Galifar, the royal family of Kaius
ir'Wynarn rules Karrnath. The blood of Kaius I flows
through a powerful extended family that oversees all government
and military functions. The next tier in status,
the nobles, have become warlords over the course of the
last century, serving the crown as generals and admirals,
as well as overseeing the land their titles grant them. Since
the time of Kaius II, the warlords have been kept in line
through harsh treatment and the use of force. The new
king, Kaius III, has begun to make overtures to change
this practice, though he has shown a remarkable ability to
perform whatever action is necessary to maintain control
and keep his plans on track. While he hopes to keep the
trust of his nobles and receive their support willingly, he
uses force when such action is required to demonstrate the
power and position of the crown.
Though Kaius III has shown some desire to transform
his nation along more progressive lines, it remains
a military dictatorship ruled by hereditary monarchs of
Galifar blood. Royal mayors govern towns and cities. Royal
ministers oversee departments that handle all aspects of
government and foreign affairs. Laws and regulations
promote a society where might makes right, and while the
Galifar Code of Justice provides the basis for civil rights
in Karrnath, the Code of Kaius that developed from it
is more rigid and less forgiving. Indeed, the nation has
labored under martial law since the earliest days of the
Last War.