DROAAM
Capital: The Great Crag
Population: 500,000 (20% gnoll, 19% orcs, 18% goblins,
5% shifters, 38% other races, including half-orcs,
harpies, hill giants, humans, medusas, minotaurs,
ogres, and trolls)
Exports: Mercenary services, byeshk
A mere two decades ago, Droaam was part of Breland. But
while the maps reflected this claim, few Brelish lived in the
western barrens beyond the Graywall Mountains. The place
has always been dangerous, a haven for monsters of all sorts,
and the land was never easy to work or hunt. A few brave settlers
tried to tame the land over the years, but none of them
ever met with much luck. As the Last War wore on, monster
warbands became more aggressive, striking at Breland either
at the behest of warring nations or for their own spoils of
war. In 987 YK, King Boranel of Breland evacuated the few
remaining Brelish and declared that the land west of Graywall
was sealed and off limits. In that same year, a trio of hags
declared the sovereignty of the new nation of Droaam.
In addition to hosting aggressive tribes of goblins,
ogres, and Khorvaire's largest gnoll population, the
region has long been home to a wide variety of dangerous
monstersboth natural beasts and strange creatures formed
from dark magic. Aside from a few fertile valleys, the region
is rocky and inhospitable; while glory-seeking knights often
ventured into the barrens in search of adventure, no ruler
of Breland ever considered the full conquest of the area to
be worth the effort. For their part, the various monsters of
the region never developed the organization or leadership
required to threaten the eastern domain. Instead ogre and
troll fought one another, pausing only to crush the occasional
questing knight. And so throughout the history of
Breland, the barrens were a place of dark legend. Mothers
would threaten to send bad children to the barrens to be
eaten by monsters, but otherwise few people thought much
about the creatures lurking to the west.
The Last War did not go unnoticed by the monstrous
inhabitants of the barrens. As Breland's forces were depleted
and diverted to the front lines, monsters began to venture
into the lowlands, raiding villages or striking travelers and
fading back into the barrens. But these actions were uncoordinated
attacks with no long-term goals or effects, since
no central authority could exert influence over the various
creatures of the land. Other warring nations occasionally
sent scouts into the barrens to rile up the monsters or
hire monstrous warbands to strike at Breland. Karrnath
was particularly good at convincing monster warlords who
ruled various parts of the barrens to descend upon and
pillage the lowland settlements.
The turning point for the region came in 986 YK
with the arrival of a trio of powerful hags, the Daughters of
Sora KellKatra, Maenya, and Teraza. These crones were
already legends. The green hag Sora Katra had haunted
the Shadow Marches for generations, while the annis Sora
Maenya had terrorized the Eldeen Reaches and the dusk hag
Sora Teraza roamed the Demon Wastes in search of ancient
knowledge. The hags had prepared for many years to claim
a land for their own, and they arrived in the barrens with
an army of fanatical gnolls, ogres, and trolls. The sisters
and their minions established themselves in the ancient
ruins at the base of the Great Crag. Over the course of the
following year, the hags established their power through
force of arms, destroying or scattering humanoid tribes
and the domains of lesser warlords. After a sufficient numbers
of examples had been made, the sisters called for the
remaining powers of the region to present themselves at the
Great Crag. There, the hags declared the foundation of the
nation of Droaama haven for all the creatures feared and
shunned by the common races.
Over the next few months, Sora Katra established the
basic system of tribute that passes for government in Droaam.
Since then the hags have been rebuilding the court at the
Great Crag and slowly establishing contact with the outside
world. (They petitioned, unsuccessfully, to be included in
the talks that led to the Thronehold Accords, and thus the
nation remains unrecognized by the rest of Khorvaire.)
While Katra's charisma is undeniable, the long-term goals
of the green hag and her sisters remain a mystery.
INDUSTRIES
Droaam has developed little in the way of organized industry.
The greatest resource it possesses is the natural power
of its inhabitants. Over the past five years, the Daughters
of Sora Kell have been making contacts across Western
Khorvaire, most notably in Zilargo, Aundair, and Breland
(despite the continuing conflict between the two regions).
Now ogre laborers and minotaur bodyguards can be found
in Brelish and Zil cities, courtesy of the rulers of Droaam.
Thrane refuses to harbor any of these monstrous mercenaries,
and many adherents of the Church of the Silver
Flame find the practice to be somewhat disturbing.
In addition to these active resources, the land possesses
considerable mineral wealth. Dragonshard fields
(particularly Eberron shards) are scattered across Droaam,
and the northern mountains hold veins of rare byeshk ore.
In the past, this area has been too dangerous to survey, but
House Tharashk has recently acquired the rights to mine
within the kingdom of monsters.
LIFE AND SOCIETY
The Daughters of Sora Kell have brought great change to
the western barrens that once belonged to Breland. Over
the past ten years, a legion of ogre workers has constructed
roads between the major communities. These new cities
have tremendous racial diversity, and can be quite a sight
for travelers. Harpies and gargoyles wheel in the sky, while
shifters and orcs rub shoulders in the streets and ogres drive
wagons pulled by dire horses. All manner of creatures can
be found in these cities, from gnolls and bugbears to worgs
and even the occasional lamia. Some of these monsters
have always lived in the region; others have emerged from
Khyber or drifted to Droaam from other lands. Almost any
creature could appear in such a place, although powerful
and intelligent creaturessuch as most fiendswould be
unlikely to accept the rule of the hags.
Only a few of these multiracial cities exist, and only
a handful of roads. The majority of Droaam is untamed
164
wilderness. In these outlying areas, communities are usually
divided along racial lines. For example, left to their own
devices, medusas rarely mix with minotaurs. The notable
exceptions to this rule are the warlords and tyrants. Gnolls,
goblins, and orcs make up the majority of the population of
Droaam, yet the nation has no villages where they rule their
own kind. Invariably, the strong rule the weak: orcs lording
over goblins, ogres ruling ores, ogre mages dominating
ogres, and so on up the chain. Due to the low intelligence of
these more powerful creatures, most of these communities
exist in an extremely primitive state.
To outsiders, Droaam appears to be a lawless nation, and
this is largely accurate. The hags are only concerned with
major threats: hostilities between monstrous communities,
raids on trade caravans, or brawls or other actions that will
result in significant property damage or multiple deaths.
Sora Maenya's troll guards deal with these crimes and with
any actions that directly threaten the hags. Less severe crimes
are ignored; as a result, street violence is commonplace. In
the smaller communities, creation and enforcement of laws
depends on the whims of the local dictator. In most cases,
the strong do what they want while the weak have no rights
whatsoever. A few of the more intelligent races, including
the medusa followers of the Queen of Stone, take a slightly
more sophisticated approach to law and order.
GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
Only a decade removed from savage anarchy, Droaam
currently follows a form of despotic feudalism. The most
powerful warlords and dictators are required to give their
tribute and loyalty to the Daughters of Sora Kell. Each of
these dictators oversees a particular region and collects
tribute from the smaller and weaker communities located
there. This tribute may be paid in gold or goods but often
takes the form of services; soldiers or laborers are sent to
the Great Crag, where they may be set to work or sent out
to serve as mercenaries in other parts of Khorvaire. This
system holds together through the underlying threat of
force. The hags possess an army of giants and considerable
magical might, while each local dictator has his or her own
means of dominating a region.
While the hags are feared more than they are loved,
the lesser warlords recognize that they are shaping Droaam
into a greater and more effective force. As a result, most
grudgingly accept the rule of the three sisters. However,
beyond that the nation is extremely volatile. The hags will
act to prevent full-scale warfare between communities,
but assassination, coups, and other minor power struggles
occur constantly. Different tribes and races have ancient
grudges to settle with one another, and as long as the feuds
don't disrupt the hags' plans for Droaam, the sisters do
not interfere.
POWER GROUPS
Due to the chaotic nature of Droaam, each community is in
some ways a power group in its own right. While hundreds
of groups of monsters are scattered throughout the nation,
the ones described below are some of the most powerful that
adventurers may encounter. Bear in mind, however, that
the balance of power can shift at any time.
The Daughters of Sora Kell: These three hags are
the driving force behind the rise of Droaam as a nation. In
addition to their own inherent abilities and their powers as
a covey, the sisters have assembled a host of powerful ogres
and trolls. Alchemical serums, enchantments, and the
charismatic words of Sora Katra have turned these vicious
creatures into fanatical killers who are willing to die for their
queens. While this army of giants forms the backbone of the
hags' hold over Droaam, in the last decade creatures of all
types have flocked to the Great Crag to join the forces of the
three sisters. For the moment the hags are dispersing many
of these volunteers to serve as mercenaries in other parts of
Khorvaire. This tactic puts gold in the hags' coffers and gives
them eyes and ears outside Droaam. It also has the effect of
making it difficult to determine just how many monsters the
sisters have under their command.
Although they work together to solidify the nation
and extend their influence beyond Droaam, the three
sisters have very different personalities and motivations.
It was Sora Teraza who gathered the covey and set forth the
blueprint for Droaam when she emerged from her long
wanderings in the Demon Wastes. Sora Katra seized upon
the idea as an intriguing mental challenge, while Sora
Maenya relished the opportunity for battle and bloodshed.
The three sisters are described below.
Sora Katra (NE female green hag, bard 11) acts as the
voice of the covey. Katra speaks at all public gatherings and
deals with the envoys of other nations. Her diplomatic skills
help maintain order among the warlords, with the aid of her
army of giants. She is extremely clever, thriving on intellectual
conflict and deception. At any given time she has half a
dozen plots underway; she uses the covey's hag eye to monitor
and circles of sound (see page 271) to maintain contact with a network
of minions hidden among the monstrous mercenaries
spread across Khorvaire. These schemes are usually relatively
small, idle plots that keep her wits sharp as she works toward
her greater goals focused on her new kingdom. Recently she
has been quietly building a criminal guild in Breland; known
as the Monster's Eye, the guild has been using the powers
of its monstrous enforcers to overwhelm the competition.
Her involvement, and the involvement of Droaam itself, is
kept secret so as not to hamper her diplomatic efforts with
Breland and the other nations. In addition to the monsters
of Droaam, Katra has recruited a considerable number of
changelings for the Monster's Eye.
Sora Maenya (CE female annis, barbarian 10) serves
as the iron fist inside Katra's velvet glove. Her legendary
physical strength is often displayed as she makes bloody
examples of those who oppose (or simply displease) the
sisters. For decades she spread fear through the Eldeen
Reaches. Now she serves as the general of the giant army,
using fear and force to control those whom Katra cannot
win with honeyed words. Many believe her to be a savage
brute, but this is far from the case. She is intelligent, if
extremely impulsive. She is a sensualist in every sense of
the word and thrives on the visceral experience of combat.
She often uses disguise self to conceal her true identity while
searching for new physical experiences.
Sora Teraza (LN female dusk hag, cleric 13), oldest of the
three sisters, is blind, though she possesses the divinatory
powers of a dusk hag (see page 284). Katra and Maenya rely
on Teraza to guide their actions and expose their enemies.
Teraza, however, is always cryptic, even when dealing with
her covey-sisters, and her advice does not always benefit the
receiver. Some say that she is mad, and this may be trueor
she may be playing an elaborate game that only she understands,
using all of Khorvaire as the playing field. Teraza
possesses the powers of a cleric (her domains are Knowledge
and Magic) but has never shown devotion to any god.
She acts as a channel for knowledge and is just as likely to
help a stranger as her own sisters. She says what needs to
be said to set events in motioneven if those events do not
benefit her personally.
House Deneith: To date, Sora Katra has worked with
House Tharashk in her efforts to spread Droaam mercenaries
across Khorvaire. The lords of House Deneith wish to
assume control of this operation or, failing this, to acquire
their own independent force of monstrous mercenaries.
This situation has resulted in a number of covert clashes
between the two dragonmarked houses.
House Tharashk: Half-orcs have an easier time in
Droaam than humans do, and House Tharashk primarily
uses orcs and half-orcs to conduct its operations here.
Over the last four years, House Tharashk has arranged
a number of deals with the Daughters of Sora Kell, most
recently acquiring the right to prospect and mine in
Droaam. The house has been granted significant authority
in the city of Graywall; Lord Khundran d'Torrn (LN
male half-orc, fighter 5/dragonmark heir 2) administers
justice in the human quarter of Graywall. Beyond
Droaam, Tharashk helps to manage the placement of
monstrous mercenaries (primarily gnolls) and often acts
as an intermediary between Droaam and other nations,
especially Thrane.
The Dark Pack: The Dark Pack consists of werewolves
and worgs. Long hunted by the Church of the Silver Flame,
the werewolves of the Pack generally remain in wolf form
at all times; many have lived their entire lives as wolves.
Virtually all the werewolves in the Pack are natural lycanthropes
descended from survivors of the original purge that
started more than one hundred sixty years ago. The spread
of lycanthropy would reveal the existence of the Pack, so the
werewolves take great pains not to leave potentially infected
survivors behind after an attack.
The Pack claims an area in the south of Droaam as
its own and migrates back and forth through this region.
It occasionally hunts the goblin inhabitants for sport,
although it prefers human preyespecially followers of
the Silver Flame. The leader of the Dark Pack, Zaeurl (NE
female elf werewolf, barbarian 2/rogue 3), saw her family
killed during one of the last inquisitions and spent one
hundred thirty years stalking followers of the Flame before
retreating into the Eldeen Reaches to form the Pack. When
the hags offered protection from the Silver Flame, Zaeurl
became one of their most loyal allies. The three sisters
often send the Pack against their enemies.
Gorodan Ashlord: An exile from Xen'drik, Lord
Gorodan (LN male fire giant, fighter 3) arrived in Droaam
twenty-four years ago and quickly established a fiefdom,
seizing control of a clan of ogres and their goblin slaves.
166
Gorodan is filled with melancholy over his banishment and
constantly complains about the cold climate. He accepts
the rule of the hags but generally remains disinterested
in events in Khorvaire. He knows a tremendous amount
about the giants of Xen'drik, and this information could
be invaluable to explorers planning an expedition into the
territory of the fire giants, assuming they can find a way
to persuade him to share it.
The Harpy Flights: The Byeshk Mountains have
been home to harpies since before the fall of the hobgoblin
empire. The Rotwing, Last Dirge, Carrion Caller, and
Stormsinger flights have all migrated to the Great Crag
and Graywall to serve the Daughters of Sora Kell, but six
flights remain in the northern mountains. Callain of the
Bloody Word (CN female harpy, bard 5) leads the strongest
of the six, the Wind Howlers. Callain has little respect for
the three hags and often seeks to interfere with their plans.
If she goes too far, the hags may seek to eradicate this rogue
flight. Wild and unpredictable, Callain could help adventurers
or seek to mislead or destroy them.
The Gnoll Brotherhood: Droaam has the most sizable
gnoll population in Khorvaire, but these gnolls do
not have their own warlord. Rather, the gnoll communities
contribute warriors to all the other power groups,
reasoning that this way they'll be on the winning side
no matter who comes out on top of the ongoing power
struggles. Thus the hags, harpies, illithids, and ogre warlords
all have cadres of gnoll archers among their forces,
and gnoll rangers have started taking service with both
House Tharashk and House Deneith. Gnolls do not fight
gnolls at the behest of others (although they occasionally
have brief, fierce feuds on their own account, primarily
to determine rulership of a gnoll band), but otherwise
they serve their appointed masters loyally, happily
slaughtering designated foes. This stance of neutrality
among the realm's general chaos has made the gnolls a
stabilizing force, the closest thing Droaam has to House
Deneith's sentinel marshals.
Mordain the Fleshweaver: The wizard Mordain
(NE male elf transmuter 18) was banished from the
Twelve (see page 245) more than two centuries ago
because of the unorthodox and disturbing experiments
he conducted. Mordain seeks to master the magic of
the daelkyr, the fiendish beings who created the mind
flayers and many of the other aberrations that haunt
the depths of Khyber. Malformed flesh golems and
strange, disfigured creaturesthe results of his horrific
experimentspatrol the land around his keep,
Mordain's Hall. A master transmuter and a deadly foe,
Mordain is obsessed with his work and has no interest
in the outside world. The Daughters of Sora Kell and
their followers avoid the lands around Mordain's tower,
and he in turn leaves them alone.
The Queen of Stone: The medusa Sheshka (N female
medusa, ranger 4) leads the community of medusas located
at the heart of the ancient goblin city of Cazhaak Draal.
Sheshka has battle-trained basilisks and cockatrices at her
command, as well as a small contingent of medusas and a
gnoll honor guard protecting the outlying approaches to
the city. While she has relatively few subjects (and those
are rather independent-minded), their powers of petrification
make them a force to be reckoned with. The
Queen of Stone respects the hags as a unifying force; a
medusa named Carash (N male medusa, rogue 1) serves as
her ambassador in the court of the Great Crag. However,
Sheshka is proud and clever. Now that a governing structure
is in place, she plots her own bid for power.
Tzaryan Rrac: Vicious and cunning, Tzaryan Rrac
(LE male ogre mage, expert 3) was one of the first of
the warlords to embrace the rule of the hags. As a result
of his quick loyalty, the ogre mage now controls a significant
territory in southwestern Droaam, dominating
a number of orc tribes with his ogre warriors. While
Tzaryan enjoys the order that the three sisters have
brought to the chaotic realm, his own hunger for more
power gnaws at him. He knows that he does not have the
strength to battle the hags directly, but his loyalty could
quickly shift if the right opportunity presents itself. In
addition to his duties as a warlord, arcane studies fascinate
the ogre mage. He is a skilled alchemist and has
spent decades studying planar cosmology, arcana, and
other esoteric subjects in his quest to become stronger
and more influential.
Xor'chylic: The venerable mind flayer Xor'chylic (LE
illithid, psion 6) is a mysterious and enigmatic figure.
In the taverns of Graywall, rumors abound that the hags
(led by a vision from Sora Teraza) found Xor'chylic in a
vault deep below the Great Crag, that the mind flayer was
imprisoned by its own kind and now seeks to bring a terrible
vengeance to Khyber. For the past four years, Xor'chylic has
served as the governor of Graywall, enforcing order in the
name of the three sisters. The illithid is ruthlessly efficient
at its task. A cold and unsettling individual, Xor'chylic is
extremely old, with wasted, withered flesh. But its mind
is still sharp, and its mental powers are as deadly as ever.
The hags have bought its loyalty with the promise of aid in
a campaign against Khyber, and when Xor'chylic is ready
it will expect that debt to be paid in full.
RELIGION
Droaam has no national religion. Priests of the Mockery
and the Shadow can be found in many communities; and
there are a few cults dedicated to the Dragon Below scattered
throughout the land.
While religion plays a minor role in the daily life
of the citizens of Droaam, hatred of the Church of the
Silver Flame is universal throughout the region. A traveler
bearing the symbol of the Silver Flame invariably
receives a hostile reaction from any creatures that he or
she encounters.
MAJOR CITIES
Most of the communities in Droaam are small hamlets
consisting of groups of orcs or goblins dominated by one or
more stronger creatures. Architecture is usually primitive,
and in the mountainous areas, communities often make
use of natural caverns supplemented by a few modifications.
Since their rise to power, the Daughters of Sora Kell
have been establishing larger cities; the most prominent of
these are Graywall and the Great Crag.
167
The Great Crag (Metropolis, 32,230): At the center
of Droaam, a vast mountain peak dominates an otherwise
flat and fertile plain. According to legend, the Great Crag
was torn up from the earth during the war between the
hobgoblins and the daelkyr. The ruins of an ancient hobgoblin
city are scattered across the plain, and ancient passages
honeycomb the mountain itself. For centuries, the
area was shunned and said to be cursed, but the Daughters
of Sora Kell have no fear of ancient superstitions. Over the
past decade, the hags and their ogre laborers have built a
great city at the base of the mountain. The Great Crag is
a bizarre mix of architectural styles; beautifully restored
buildings from the time of the Dhakaani Empire stand
beside huge, rough structures that ogres have assembled
using irregular stone blocks. Harpies live in roosts high
on cliff faces, while the rest of the citizens make do with
temporary tents and huts until more permanent structures
are established. The court of the three sisters is carved
into the mountain itself, consisting of a combination of
rough-hewn passages and ancient chambers dating back
to the hobgoblin empire.
The Great Crag is a work in progress; its population
outstrips its size. Thousands of goblin squatters live in
camps scattered around the edges of the city, alongside
well-organized gnoll barracks. An enormous arena
covers one of the largest sections of the city. Here, races,
gladiatorial combat, and blood sports of all types play out
before packed crowds in the Crag. The arena also serves
as a training facility for those who offer their services to
the hags.
The only dragonmarked house with an outpost in the
Crag is House Tharashk. There are temples to the Mockery
and the Shadow, but these are relatively small, since
the hags do not directly support either deity. The marketplace
sells foreign goods that have been shipped in from
Graywall, along with the unusual crafts of the monstrous
races, such as medusa stonework. Sora Maenya's elite troll
guards, assisted by gnoll mercenaries, maintain order in
the city.
Graywall (Small City, 6,300): Far smaller than
the Great Crag, Graywall sits on the border of Breland
and Droaam. This gateway to the kingdom of monsters
is as deep into the barrens as most travelers are willing to
go. The city was built using the strength of ogres and the
architectural skills of medusas, all under the direction of
Xor'chylic the mind flayer. The combination resulted in
roughly formed buildings with an alien aesthetic that most
visitors find disturbing.
The eastern quarter of the city houses humans and
other members of the common races. Most buildings are
human-sized, and a few human-run inns serve food that
travelers may find palatable. A small temple dedicated to
the Sovereign Host can be found here, but no shrine burns
with the Silver Flame.
Xor'chylic, the illithid governor appointed by the three
sisters, has granted House Tharashk the right to administer
justice within the semiautonomous human quarter.
Accordingly, the dragonmarked house maintains a large
keep in the city. House Sivis has a small outpost that provides
some communication with other parts of Khorvaire,
while House Orien maintains the trade road connecting
Graywall, the Great Crag, and Breland. (Depending on
the state of relations on any given day, Breland often closes
the road on its side of the border to hamper the activities
of marauding warbands.) The only other dragonmarked
house in the area is House Deneith, which offers its services
to caravans and other expeditions heading into the
interior of Droaam.
In the western, northern, and southern areas of the
city, the buildings facilitate the needs of ogres, minotaurs,
and other large creatures. The majority of the populace
consists of gnolls, orcs, and goblins, but creatures of all
sorts can be found on the streets.
Graywall has a large arena, although not as large as
the one in the Great Crag. Travelers can gamble on the
outcome of events or even enter the arena (perhaps of their
own free will, perhaps not) to try to make some fast gold.
In the marketplace, humans and other common races can
exchange their wares for local goods, or bid for the services
of monstrous mercenaries. Representatives of the smaller
communities often come to Graywall to purchase human
goods, and a considerable amount of intrigue takes place
between the emissaries of feuding hamlets. Xor'chylic the
mind flayer has a powerful multiracial security forcemade
up primarily of smarter than average gnoll guards reinforced
by minotaur, troll, medusa, and harpy officers
with which the illithid maintains a fair degree of order in
the city.
IMPORTANT SITES
Thousands of years ago, Droaam was a borderland between
the hobgoblin Dhakaani Empire and the lands of the orc
barbarians. The region was devastated during the war
against the daelkyr, and the ruins of ancient villages and
towns are scattered throughout the area. Most of these
now serve as the lairs of dangerous beasts, although goblin
squatters and other intelligent creatures have reclaimed
a few.
Cazhaak Draal: Also known as the Stonelands, this is
a rocky region surrounding the ruins of an ancient hobgoblin
metropolis. The city was abandoned after the daelkyr
released a horde of basilisks, gorgons, and cockatrices from
the depths of Khyber. The streets of the ruined city are
still filled with petrified goblins and hobgoblins, although
most of these statues have been shattered or eroded by
the ravages of time. The monsters that ravaged the city in
ancient times still dominate the region, and other strange
anomalies are found here, such as petrification-resistant
gargoyles and places where trees and other vegetation have
become petrified.
The passage to Khyber near the center of the ruined
city remains open, even after nine thousand years. Two
hundred twenty years ago (778 YK), a band of medusas
came up from Khyber and took possession of Cazhaak
Draal, renovating a few of the buildings for their own
use. The medusas have domesticated many of the other
creatures in the region and have slowly expanded their
power base. The city's physical size is far larger than
that of the Great Crag, but the medusas inhabit only a
small part of it, and their individual lairs are often some
168
distance apart. Over the years, they have been exploring
the ruins and searching for treasures left behind by
the goblinoids. However, other beasts have come from
Khyber as well, and there are things hidden in Cazhaak
Draal that even the medusas fear. Queen Sheshka currently
leads the medusa community, styling herself as
the Queen of Stone.
ADVENTURING IN DROAAM
Droaam, despite its bid to be recognized as a nation,
remains an extremely dangerous place for humans and
members of the other common races. A virtually lawless
land at the best of times, the place can be brutal and deadly
at its worst. Creatures that don't have a taste for human
flesh may attack travelers to steal their possessions or
simply to express their dislike for the races that have come
to dominate Khorvaire. In Graywall, most of the monster
inhabitants treat the common races with an indifferent
attitude. Beyond the gateway city, this attitude drops to
unfriendly or worse. However, half-orcs are usually well
received; improve a Droaam citizen's attitude by one step
when dealing with a half-orc traveler. Regardless of race,
the inhabitants of Droaam are usually hostile to followers
of the Silver Flame.
Primitive and with a limited infrastructure, Droaam
has only two major roads leading from Graywall. The first
is a path to the Shadow Marches, the second a trade road to
the Great Crag, which then continues on to the Marches.
These roads are almost as dangerous as the wilderness, and
most caravans hire guards from House Deneith or ogre
mercenaries from the markets of Graywall for protection.
Caravans carrying goods for the three sisters receive
elite troll guards as escorts. Most raiders fear reprisals
from the sisters and will not attack caravans guarded by
these trolls.
House Orien has just completed the upgrades to turn
the road between Graywall and the Great Crag into a trade
road, but security remains a grave concern. The house
only runs a caravan once per week, and the cost of travel
is tripled for these journeys.
In addition to the threat of raiders (be they goblins,
orcs, ogres, or minotaurs), a tremendous range of nonhumanoid
creatures, both intelligent monsters and savage
beasts, inhabits the barrens of Droaam. Chimeras, griffins,
rampagers (see Monster Manual II), worgs, and many other
creatures haunt the wilds. The barren plains and sparse
forests of Droaam overflow with dangers, as anyone who
ventures off the roads soon discoversand travel by road
isn't much safer.
Despite the dangers, a wide variety of adventures
await those willing to brave Droaam's bleak barrens.
Ruins and relics of the hobgoblin-daelkyr conflict are
scattered across the land, often ignored or shunned by
the monstrous inhabitants. These locations can form the
basis for simple treasure-hunting expeditions, scholarly
exploration, or part of a quest stretching across Khorvaire
in search of the secrets of the daelkyr. The cities of
Droaam are full of possibilities for intrigue, as the various
monster warlords scheme against each other or against the
three sisters. On a smaller scale, there is always a call for
guards to protect the caravans that travel from Graywall to
the Great Crag. In addition, problems often crop up with
magical beasts raiding across the border into Breland;
local Brelish lords usually pay good bounties to have such
creatures dealt with.
Tensions remain high between Breland and Droaam,
despite overtures of peace from the three sisters and a
rejected petition to take part in the talks to end the Last
War. While Droaam has become more influential in recent
years, it has not received formal recognition as an independent
nation. Border skirmishes continue between
Breland and Droaam, and King Boranel has little faith
in the sweet-sounding promises made by Sora Katra and
her sisters.
ADVENTURE IDEAS
A scholar has discovered an ancient hobgoblin scroll
revealing the location of a hidden vault in the ruins of
Cazhaak Draal. But the Kech Volaar clan of Darguun (see
page 154) has also learned of the lost trove, and both seek
to be the first to reach the spot. Of course, the medusas
who rule the region would be equally interested in obtaining
the treasures hidden beneath their feet, should word
of such things leak to them. Does the trove hold powerful
artifacts, gold and jewels, or simply the petrified
bodies of the greatest heroes of the ancient empire? If the
last option is true, the Kech Volaar could be searching for
some heirloom of the royal line that can identify the true
Heir of Dhakaan and thus help bring about the reestablishment
of the ancient kingdom.
The Church of the Silver Flame has heard rumors
of the existence of the Dark Pack, a group of surviving
lycanthropes. While technically the inquisition of the
lycanthropes has ended, a force dedicated to avenging
the old cleansings must be considered a hostile threat to
the current church and its followers. Paladins or priests
loyal to the Flame are charged with traveling to Droaam,
despite the risk, to confirm or disprove the existence of
this threat.
A mysterious message delivered by a gargoyle contains
a summons to the court at the Great Crag. Sora Teraza
has had a vision that affects the bearer of the letter. Will the
trip bring good fortune, or will it draw the bearer into
the schemes of Sora Katra and the rising conflict between
the hags and the Queen of Stone?
House Deneith, furious about the power that House
Tharashk holds in Droaam, seeks ways to weaken and discredit
its rival. While visiting Graywall, a member or ally
of House Tharashk is framed for the murder of a senior
member of Lord Khundran's staff and sentenced to fight
in the arena to prove her innocencea sentence the noncombatant
can't hope to survive. Can the true murderer
be found before it's too late?
House Tharashk has discovered an ancient mine in
the northern mountains. But long ago the daelkyr seeded
the mine with horrible creatures to prevent the hobgoblins
from developing the veins of ore. The mine must be
cleared before Tharashk can get it operating, and explorers
may find relics from the war against the daelkyr while
dealing with the monsters from the depths.