THE GATEKEEPERS
Members of the Gatekeepers, a druid sect dedicated to
protecting nature from the unnatural, spend their lives
fighting aberrations and guarding against extraplanar
invasion and the release of ancient evils.
The Gatekeepers maintain the oldest druidic tradition
on Khorvaire. Over fifteen thousand years ago,
the green dragon Vvaraak came to the Shadow Marches
and gathered followers around her. She had foreseen a
cataclysm that only the younger races would be able to
avert, and so she taught the orcs how to work with earth
and wood, and how to read the future in the movements
of the Ring of Siberys. She charged her students to watch
for the signs of the great disaster, and always seek to
preserve the balance of nature against those forces that
would corrupt it.
It was over seven thousand years before the Gatekeepers
faced the first real threat to Khorvaire: the coming
of the daelkyr. Leading armies of illithids, beholders,
and other aberrations, these fiends sought to remake
Khorvaire. The war that followed shattered the hobgoblin
empire and left terrible scars across the continent,
but Kharaak's students ultimately prevailedthe gates to
Xoriat were sealed, and the daelkyr who remained were
driven into the depths of Khyber. The question remained:
Was this the cataclysm Vvaraak had predicted, or a prelude
to something worse?
The Gatekeepers had been crippled by the war against
the daelkyr. The survivors retreated to the depths of the
Shadow Marches and the Eldeen Reaches. Gatekeeper
barbarians and rangers hunted down the surviving aberrations,
while the druids watched the skies for signs of
new dangers. Eventually, humans came to Khorvaire.
The Gatekeepers shared their secrets with the newcomers,
and some humans joined the ancient cause. Today, the
Shadow Marches are a stronghold for the Gatekeepers;
in the Eldeen Reaches, the Wardens of the Wood and the
other sects inspired by the Great Druid Oalian outnumber
the Gatekeepers.
The Gatekeepers have a loose structure. Aspirants
grow into initiates, and initiates become gatekeepers.
Otherwise, rank and respect comes with seniority and
deeds. High-level druids guide the Gatekeepers, but
they make up only a small part of the sect. For every
gatekeeper, there are a handful of aspirants (mid-level
druids) and initiates (low-level druids). For every initiate,
there are three or four hunters. In the Shadow
Marches, the sect's barbarian hunters allow the fury of
nature to guide their actions. In the Eldeen Reaches,
ranger hunters carefully track the horrors that have been
left behind by the daelkyr.
The Gatekeepers seek to defend nature against aberrations,
outsiders, undead, and other horrors that have
no place in the natural order of Eberron. They remain
ever vigilant, preparing for war against darkness that may
rise again. The Gatekeepers of the Eldeen Reaches have a
friendly relationship with the Wardens of the Wood, the
largest druidic sect in the region. In general, the Gatekeepers
have little interest in the politics and affairs of the
Five Nations.