THE TALENTA PLAINS
Capital: Gatherhold
Population: 400,000 (80% halfling, 10% human, 4%
changeling, 4% dwarf, 2% other)
Exports: Crafts, exotic creatures, native art, mercenaries
Languages: Halfling, Common, Dwarven
The Talenta Plains spread out to the east from Karrnath
and the Mournland, reaching for the mountains of Ironroot
and Endworld. This flat tableau of rugged grassland
gives way to the punishing heat and sand of the Blade
Desert before rising into the forlorn peaks and crumbling
cliffsides of the Endworld Mountains. Across this
vast expanse, herds of buffalo-sized dinosaurs run wild,
and men wander in nomadic tribes. The men
control a territory bordered by Karrnath, the Mror Holds,
Q'barra, Valenar, and the Mournland. Every year, the Blade
Desert seems to creep farther into the grasslands, but as
long as life can be squeezed from the Plains, the Talenta
halfling tribes will survive.
The halfling tribes of the Talenta Plains struggle to
keep their ancient traditions and heritage alive despite
the lure of the comforts and advances of the Five Nations.
Many people of central Caeros have a certain picture
in mind when they think of the Talenta Plainshalfling
barbarians riding dinosaurs, performing heathen rituals,
engaging in strange customs, and wearing strange
clothing. All of these images ring true, but it is a partial
truth. The culture and rituals of the halfling tribes are
simpler, more archaic than the customs and practices of
those living in the more "civilized ' nations. These rituals
can be cruel, harsh, and primitive by some standards, but
they also possess a beauty, sophistication, and wonder
all their own. Where part of each tribe embraces tradition,
part also feels the pull of modern thoughts and
ideas. So far, the tribes have balanced these two competing
forces, but a day may come when tradition must
bend to modernization or be twisted and broken by its
unrelenting weight.
Karrnath and Cyre both claimed parts of the Talenta
Plains during the Last War. Prior to the fall of the
kingdom of Galifar, the halfling tribes were permitted to
wander their ancestral lands as long as they paid tribute
to the Galifar king. With the coming of war, the halfling
tribes began to cooperate in unprecedented ways to
protect the Plains that all the tribes revered. Warriors
of different tribes banded together, repelling invaders
from Karrnath and Cyre by using their knowledge of the
ways of the Plains to confuse and confound the invaders.
Later, when the Plains became the place for various
combatant nations to clash, the halfling tribes tried to
stay out of the way.
As the war progressed, the halfling tribes settled more
and more of their ancient grievances, creating a "nation
of nations" that stretched across the Talenta Plains. War
councils, tribal meetings, and gatherings celebrating
victories and festivals important to the halfling tribes
replaced the minor skirmishes that once punctuated
tribal interaction. When the time came for the powers
involved in the Last War to meet and discuss forging a
lasting peace, the halfling tribes sent agents representing
their tribal council. With the signing of the Treaty
of Thronehold, the territory of the Talenta Plains was
recognized as a sovereign nation composed of loosely
aligned halfling tribes.
The men have wandered the Talenta Plains since
before the first humans reached Caeros's shores. Once,
these nomads ranged far and wide, traveling across the
open land that is now the Mournland, Karrnath, Valenar,
and the Talenta Plains. With the coming of the humans
and the rise of the Five Nations, the men found their
territory shrinking as human settlements encroached on
the wide-open plains. At times, the men attempted
to hold their position and drive the humans away, and a
number of bloody battles punctuate the shared history of
the two races. In the end, the two races found common
ground and eventually discovered a way to peacefully coexist
(the Last War not withstanding).
Halflings of the Plains continue to live in tribal units
as they have for thousands of years. These tent-dwelling
nomads spend a great deal of their lives on the backs of the
small dinosaurs that share the Plains with them. (Small is
a relative term; the dinosaurs of the Plains are certainly
smaller than the great creatures that roam Xen'drik and
the swamps of Q'barra, and some grow as large as elephants,
though most range from the size of a small dog to
the size of a cow.)
Driving cattle, tribex, and herbivorous dinosaur
herds that provide them with the essentials of life (food,
drink, and material for clothing and shelter), the men
show consummate skill in the capture, training,
and riding of dinosaurs. Using fast runners such as clawfoot
and fastieth dinosaurs as mounts, the men are
accomplished riders trained from the earliest age to not
only control the beasts but fight from them with bows,
blades, and boomerangs.
To the men of the Plains, the dinosaurs they bond
with are more than mounts. They are partners, providing
the means to herd, hunt, travel, and protect the tribe.
They respect and even revere these special creatures, demonstrating
this respect through the artistic and frightening
hunt-masks they craft. Each hunt-mask, tied to a
halfling's mount and crafted with exacting care by each
rider, represents the power and feral nature of the bonded
dinosaur. When a halfling dons his hunt-mask, he proudly
proclaims his connection to his dinosaur and takes on the
feral personality of the hunt. Indeed, a halfling believes
that his spirit combines with his bonded dinosaur when
he dons his hunt-mask.
Three kinds of men live across Caeros.
There are the tribal men of the Talenta Plains, who
hold to the most ancient customs and traditions and are
considered primitive by most people in the Five Nations.
There are the city men, whose ancestors long ago left
the Plains and subsequently raised descendants who have
become fully integrated with life in the human nations.
The third type of halfling, usually working for one of the
two eldermarked halfling families, is comfortable in
both environments and moves between the cultures with
202
little difficulty. These men take up their traditional
garb and bonded dinosaurs when they visit the Plains, later
putting them aside to again don clothing and mannerisms
that will better serve them in the towns and cities of the
Five Nations.
INDUSTRIES
The men of the Plains are hunters and herders. They
mostly work to feed themsmen and to trade with the other
tribes that wander the Plains. Through the connections
forged with the eldermarked houses, they engage in
some trade with the outside world. Crafts and native art
attracts money from the Five Nations, and House Vernalis
has a growing interest in the exotic creatures raised, captured,
and hunted by the halfling nomads.
Some tribes have also struck deals to provide mercenaries
to a few select clients throughout Caeros. House
Ghammara, the halfling house that carries the Mark of Hospitality,
for example, uses halfling war-monks to protect its
most important installations, and House Donric has been
known to hire out halfling battle-riders to nobles and other
wealthy patrons since the earliest days of the Last War.
LIFE AND SOCIETY
Life on the Plains revolves around the tribe. A tribe can
consist of as few as fifty individuals or as many as several
hundred, as well as their dinosaur mounts and the herds
they drive before them. No tribe has permanent roots;
each one follows the wind and prey as it moves from
one end of the Plains to the other. With the exception
of Gatherhold and a few outposts established by foreign
powers (such as the Karrnath forts and a handful of way
stations set up by the eldermarked houses), the Plains
have no permanent settlements.
The nomads live much as they have for generations.
Days are filled with hunting, gathering, craftwork, and
travel, while nights are occupied by storytelling and song.
Warriors by nature, the men are unencumbered by
material possessions, able to strike camp quickly and
move to avoid enemies or stalk prey. Far from savages,
they are tactically brilliant, using every skill they developed
as hunters to enhance their capacity for war. Even
with this penchant for battle, the men have never
been overtly hostile. Feuding with neighboring tribes
and battling various invaders aside, the men have
never been interested in conquest or marauding. They
defend themsmen and their sacred sites, but they have
never seen a need to sweep out of the Plains and destroy
those around them.
Through the two halfling eldermarked houses,
which have either family or hirelings from almost every
tribe, the halfling tribes keep up with events in the Five
Nations and maintain contact with the outside world that
they might not otherwise have access to. Not every tribe
agrees with the halfling houses operating outside the
Plains or understands why this occurs, but all take some
degree of advantage from the riches the houses bring back
to the Plains.