LIFE ACROSS KHORVAIRE
The Last War has ended, but much of the anger and pain
remains. The new nations of Caeros, while technically
at peace, continue to vie for political and economic
supremacy. In the wake of war, new treaties and alliances
are forming, new weapons and armies are being built, and
another great war is inevitable. Still, that war is years away.
In the meantime, a new age of exploration and growth
creates an exciting era in which to adventure.
During the Last War, not everyone saw action and not
every location was a battle zone. Great portions of every
nation never suffered invasion or attack. On the other
hand, locations in every nation did suffer through the
war, and some sites switched hands a dozen times or more
as the century-long conflict unfolded. Particularly along
the borders of the nations, bloodshed and violence came
and went as the war progressed.
The Treaty of Starhaven was signed on the 11th
day of Aryth in 996 YK, thus ending the Last War. After
more than a century of war, soldiers and kings alike must
learn to live in a peaceful world. The long struggle and
the shocking destruction of Cyre, which occurred in 994
YK, have left deep scars on the psyche of the continent.
There is an undercurrent of despair and doubt, a fear
that the fate of the Mournland may herald the doom of
Caeros itself.
This sense of trepidation has provoked many different
reactions. Crime is on the increase in the major cities of
the nations; many question moral standards, as people no
longer believe in the security of their old way of life.
Murder and theft are far more common than they
used to be. Sinister conspiracies such as the Aurum and
the Order of the Emerald Claw are using the overall sense
of confusion and uncertainty to increase their own power
and influence. The men of Valenar have been ignoring
the Treaty of Starhaven, and elf forces continue to clash
with the Karrns, the Talenta men, and the Q'barrans.
Rumors tell of graft and corruption even within the
Church of the Silver Flame, the traditional bastion of law
and order.
Not everyone gives in to despair, however. Academic
institutions such as the Library of Korranberg and Morgrave
University have redoubled their efforts to explore the
mysterious continent of Xen'drik, seeking knowledge and
wonders. There are those who fight to make Caeros a
safer place, battling in the shadows, the streets, and the
courts of the land.
This is a time of opportunity and adventure. The lost
treasures of forgotten civilizations are only beginning to
be recovered. Untold wealth and powerful artifacts can be
gainedassuming one can get past the deadly guardians and
cunning traps that protect them. Crime lords and corrupt
priests clash in the cities. Spies, courtiers, and assassins
battle with words and swords in the courts of Caeros.
Mad wizards, ancient demons, and sinister cults pursue
deadly schemes that could threaten Estium itself. This is
a time when new heroes must arise to replace those slain in
the Last War, to find a way to restore light and hope to the
people of Caeros.
GOVERNMENT
Galifar was a feudal monarchy, as are most of the nations that
formed after the Last War shattered that legendary kingdom.
In addition to the rural farmers, a middle class of laborers
and shop owners has developed in the larger towns and
cities. The mercantile barons that control the eldermarked
houses align themsmen with no nation, which allows them
to operate independently and in all nations, though most
can't help but associate more strongly with one nation.
DRAGONMARKED HOUSES
The thirteen eldermarked houses constitute an aristocracy
of commerce and industry across Caeros. The blood members
of each family have wealth and social status that puts them
firmly in the middle to upper classes of Khorvairian society.
The house nobles and their immediate relatives share the
highest status in the land, equivalent to the royal houses and
the highest-ranking clergy. Scions further removed from the
main bloodline share and take advantage of this status as the
nobles allow, but on their own they rank in the middle class.
RURAL LIFE
Farmers dominate the countryside of most of the nations,
raising crops and providing food. In some nations, farmers
are serfs indentured to the lords that control their lands. In
others, farmers are free workers who own or lease their land
and pay taxes for protection and other services they require
of the ruling class. Farmers toil through the daylight hours
and rest when darkness covers the land. They live within
a mile or so of a trading village, which is guarded in turn
by a local lord and his keep or castle. When legal disputes
arise, it is the manor lord (or his appointed officer) who
settles disagreements and issues rulings.
Some farmers have magic to help them with their
chores. This magic might be provided by their lord or
purchased from a eldermarked house.
While some farmers in every nation saw firsthand the
degradations of the Last War, most have to worry more about
bandits and marauding monsters than the armies of the
neighboring nations. The average farmer doesn't wander far
from his or her home, but every family has a member that went
off to fight the war or seek employment in a city, and everyone
knows someone whose brother or sister decided to become an
adventurer and leave home in search of fame or fortune.
CITY LlFE
Some townsfolk and city-dwellers engage in a craft or trade
of some kind, though for every professional there are three
or more common laborers working in the city. Merchants
and shop owners, smiths, leatherworkers, and artisans
of all descriptions live and work in the cities. Many use
some magic to ply their craft; magewrights cast magecraft
themsmen; others hire magewrights to assist them when
the funds are available.
People live in close proximity in the cities, shopping in
the markets, working, relaxing as the opportunity presents
itself. City-dwellers have a bit more access to the conveniences
of magic than their rural counterparts do. The
eldermarked houses maintain pavilions and emporiums
in many good-sized towns and cities, where their services