HISTORY OF THE WORLD
The past shapes the present, setting the stage for the future
that is to come. On Eberron, a rich and tangled history has
helped craft the current era. What follows are highlights
of ages past. The common era is reckoned from the birth
of the Kingdom of Galifar (in the Year since the founding
of the Kingdom, or YK). Events from the more distant
past are shown as a number of years before the current day
(-10,000,000, for example).
ABBREVIATED TIMELINE
Age of Dragons
Date Event
??? In the mythic past, the world was one and the
progenitor wyrms, the first and greatest of dragonkind,
ruled all. The three most powerfulSiberys,
Eberron, and Khyberdiscovered (or created)
the Prophecy. A world-shattering struggle
followed, splitting the world into three parts
and scattering the Prophecy across the width
and breadth of existence. In the end, Siberys
became the glowing ring that surrounds
the world, Khyber was bound in the darkest
depths, and Eberron healed the world between
by becoming one with it. Siberys called forth the
next generation of dragons, Eberron created all
manner of other living things, and Khyber spat
out the fiends.
Age of Demons
Date Event
10,000,000 Khyber's fiendish offspring overrun the surface
world, creating a hellish environment where
rakshasas and night hags rule supreme.
1,500,000 Dragons rediscover the Prophecy and rise from
their primitive state to oppose their demonic
overlords, allying with other draconic species,
including the couatls. The common races, still in
primitive states, hide from the godlike combatants
and find a way to survive.
100,000 Couatls sacrifice most of their number to send
the most powerful of the demon lords and the
majority of the fiends back to Khyber, where they
are trapped for eternity. The dragons retreat to
Argonnessen to contemplate the Prophecy,
ignoring the "lesser races."
Age of Giants
Date Event
80,000 The giants rise from the ruins of the DragonFiend
Wars to establish a vast and powerful
civilization on the continent of Xen'drik. They
enslave elves and drow, which has the inadvertent
effect of pulling the first of the common races out
of their primitive state.
60,000 Dragons make contact with the giant kingdoms
and begin to teach the giants how to use arcane
magic. The elves watch and learn from their place
at the giants' heels. The giants quickly master the
arcane arts, creating wonders unequaled even in
the modern day.
40,000 The quori invade Xen'drik through a gate that
connects Eberron to Dal Quor, the Plane of
Dreams. After years of battle, the giants call
upon the magic of the dragons to destroy the
planar gate. This act results in a cataclysm that
shakes Xen'drik to its core and plunges large
chunks of the continent beneath the sea. The
physical connection to Dal Quor is severed,
perhaps forever.
39,000 The remaining giant kingdoms never quite
recover from the events of the quori invasion.
Horrible curses and plagues sweep through the
land, and the elves use the opportunity to rebel.
In desperation, the giants again turn to the same
magic they used to stop the quori. Before they
can unleash such destruction a second time, the
dragons attack. Giant civilization crumbles, the
drow go into hiding in the Xen'drik countryside,
and the elves flee to the island-continent
of Aerenal.
Age of Monsters
Date Event
38,000 The giants revert to primitive monsters living
in the ruins of their shattered civilization as the
dragons return to their secluded continent and
the elves settle Aerenal. Meanwhile, on Khorvaire,
the first of the goblinoid kingdoms rises
in the area that will one day become Breland
and Darguun.
30,000 Orc nations arise in western Khorvaire to compete
with the goblinoid kingdoms.
25,000 The Undying Court appears in Aerenal. First
skirmish between the elves and the dragons,
which sets a pattern of long periods of peace
punctuated by short, devastating battles every
few hundred years.
16,000 The Dhakaani unite the goblinoid nations to
create the greatest empire the goblins have ever
known. The Gatekeepers appear among the orcs
of western Khorvaire.
The dwarves migrate from the Frostfell to the
Ironroot Mountains.
Aerenal elves establish a colony in what is now
present-day Valenar. Peaceful coexistence
doesn't last, and the elves come into conflict
with the Dhakaani. The elves abandon the
colony when another clash with the dragons
threatens Aerenal.
9,000 The Daelkyr War decimates the western reaches
of Khorvaire.
-5,000 Weakened by the Daelkyr War, the Dhakaani
Empire is shattered by infighting and civil
strife, eventually leading to the collapse of the
inoid civilization.
-12,000
-10,000
The Current Age
Date Event
4,100 The greatpine Oalian is awakened.
3,200 The Mark of Hospitality appears among halflings
of the Talenta Plains. The Mark of Shadow
and the Mark of Death appear among the elves
of Aerenal. The dragons watch in awe and
horror as the Prophecy begins to unfold among
the "lesser ' races.
3,000 Lhazaar leads humans from Sarlona to the eastern
shores of Khorvaire. The Mark of Healing
appears among halflings of the Talenta Plains.
2,800 The Mark of Scribing appears among the gnomes
of Zilargo.
2,600 The Mark of Sentinel appears among humans of
pre-Galifar Karrnath. House Vol, which carries
224
the Mark of Death, is wiped out in Aerenal. Vol 832 YK
the lich is created. House Phiarlan leaves Aerenal
to relocate among the humans of Khorvaire.
2,500 The distinct settlements that will become the Five
Nations appear in central Khorvaire. The Mark 845 YK
of Making appears among humans of pre-Galifar
Cyre. The Mark of Warding appears among the
dwarves of the Mror Holds.
2,000 Karrn the Conquerer establishes the nation
of Karrnath, defeats the remaining goblinoid 878 YK
settlements, and unsuccessfully attempts to
conquer the other four human nations. The 894 YK
Mark of Storm appears among half-elves of preGalifar
Thrane.
1,900 The Mark of Passage appears among humans of
pre-Galifar Aundair. 896 YK
1,800 The Mark of Handling appears among humans 897 YK
in the Eldeen Reaches. Kalashtar reach Sar- 910 YK
lona, fleeing Dal Quor and the persecution of
the quori.
1,500 Quori begin conquest of Sarlona. Second wave 914 YK
of humans reach Khorvaire's western shores.
The Mark of Detection appears among halfelves
of pre-Galifar Breland. The dragonmarked 918 YK
houses launch the War of the Mark to end the
threat of aberrant and mixed marks. The Twelve 928 YK
is established.
-1,043 Galifar I is born in Karrnath. 956 YK
1,022 Galifar assumes rulership of Karrnath.
1,012 Galifar begins his campaign to unite the Five
Nations. ' 958 YK
1,005 Galifar makes a deal with the dragonmarked
houses, offering them neutral status in exchange
for support in his campaign.
1,000 The Mark of Finding appears among humans and 961 YK
half-orcs of the Shadow Marches. 962 YK
l YK(-998) Galifar 1 and his five scions-Gyre, Karrn, 965 YK
Thrane, Aundair, and Breytake control of
the Five Nations and establish the Kingdom
of Galifar. 969 YK
15 YK Galifar I establishes the Arcane Congress.
28 YK Galifar-Lhazaar War, a decade-long conflict, 972 YK
begins. 976 YK
32 YK The Five Nations of Galifar adopt the names of
King Galifar's children as their own. 980 YK
40 YK Galifar, now eighty-five years old, steps down 986 YK
and passes rulership of the kingdom to his oldest
remaining scion, Cyre.
53 YK Galifar I dies. 987 YK
106 YK House Kundarak is recognized by the established
dragonmarked houses.
299 YK The Church of the Silver Flame is born.
347 YK House Lyrandar takes possession of an island off 990 YK
the coast of Aundair to create Stormhome.
498 YK House Sivis discovers the Mark of Finding while 991 YK
exploring the Shadow Marches. House Tharashk 993 YK
is created shortly thereafter.
512 YK King Daroon orders the construction of the 994 YK
Starpeaks Observatory. 996 YK
778 YK Medusas from Khyber take possession of Cazhaak
Draal.
789 YK House Sivis message stations begin operations.
802 YK The Kingdom of Galifar, in cooperation with
the dragonmarked houses, funds the upgrade of
the trade city of Stormreach on the northern
peninsula of Xen'drik.
811 YK First lightning rail connects Flamekeep and
Fairhaven. 998 YK
The inquisition to wipe out lycanthropes is
launched by the Church of the Silver Flame;
it lasts fifty years and drives the species almost
to extinction.
King Jarot begins a public works project to
connect all of central Khorvaire via lightning
rails. Within twenty years, lines connect the
Five Nations, Zilargo, the Mror Holds, and the
Talenta Plains.
House Deneith begins to provide clients with
goblinoid mercenaries from Darguun region.
Kingjarot, the last ruler of Galifar, dies. Thalin,
Kaius, and Wroann reject the succession of Mishann.
Wrogar backs his sister's claim, and the
Last War begins.
Order of the Emerald Claw established.
Kaius I turned into a vampire by Vol the lich.
Kaius II ascends to the throne of Karrnath after
Kaius I fakes his death and goes in search of a way
to free his kingdom from the Blood of Vol.
The Mror Holds declares its independence.
Thalin of Thrane dies and the Church of the
Silver Flame seizes control of the nation.
Unknown saboteurs destroy the Glass Tower of
Sharn.
Ven ir'Kesslan leads settlers from the Five
Nations to forge the nation of Q'barra.
Aerenal mercenaries annex southern Cyre
and declare the sovereignty of the elf nation of
Valenar.
The Eldeen Reaches declares itself an independent
nation under the protection of the
Wardens of the Wood and the guidance of the
Great Druid Oalian.
Boranel becomes king of Breland.
Zilargo formally aligns with Breland.
House Cannith perfects the modern-era warforged,
living constructs designed to fight the
Last War.
Haruuc leads the hobgoblin rebellion, and the
nation of Darguun is born.
House Thuranni splits off from House Phiarlan.
Regent Moranna of Karrnath outlaws the Order
of the Emerald Claw.
Queen Aurala's reign of Aundair begins.
A trio of hags known as the Daughters of Sora
Kell arrive in Droaam with an army of trolls,
ogres, and gnolls.
King Boranel pulls settlers back and seals off
the land west of the Graywall Mountains. The
Daughters of Sora Kell declare the sovereignty
of the nation of Droaam.
The first elemental airships go into service for
House Lyrandar.
Kaius Ill's rule of Karrnath begins.
Jaela Daran assumes the power of the Keeper of
the Silver Flame.
Cyre is destroyed; the Mournland is created.
The Treaty of Thronehold officially ends the Last
War. The treaty officially recognizes the nations
of Aundair, Breland, Thrane, Karrnath, the
Talenta Plains, Zilargo, Q'barra, the Lhazaar
Principalities, the Mror Holds, the Eldeen
Reaches, Darguun, and Valenar. House Cannith
is ordered to destroy all creation forges;
the remaining warforged are granted the rights
of sentient beings.
The campaign begins. . . .