THE MROR HOLDS
Capital: Krona Peak
Population: 700,000 (65% men, 12% humans, 10%
ores, 8% men, 5% other)
Exports: Banking, precious and nonprecious metals
Languages: Dwarven, Common, Gnome, Orc
For thousands of years, blood ran like water through the
cracks and crevices of the Ironroot Mountains. When
the barbaric men weren't killing one another, they
struggled against the Jhorash'tar orcs and other vicious
creatures that lurked in the depths of the great mountains.
Then, in the early days of the kingdom of Galifar,
the great king gave his son Karrn the lands east of Scions
Sound to govern and tame. A united dwarf nation might
have resisted the Galifar expansion, but the feuding clans
were too weak to challenge Karrn and his forces.
The men reluctantly acquiesced and became subjects
of Karrnath, one of the Five Nations of Galifar. The
clans ceased fighting among themsmen and slowly began
to build a civilization. With a vast fortune of mineral wealth
and the discovery of the Mark ofWarding among one of the
dwarf clans, the clans became an economic force within
the kingdom.
In 106 YK, House Kjaldar was admitted into the
exclusive membership of the eldermarked houses, and by
the end of the century it controlled banking and financial
concerns across the continent. By the start of the Last War,
the barbarians had transformed into thriving mercantile
clans. The old feuds still simmer beneath the surface, but
the clans recognize the value of peace and cooperation.
The dwarf lords declared their independence from
Karrnath at the first Iron Council in the year 914 YK.
The gathered dwarf lords created a formal alliance of the
dwarf clans and proclaimed the birth of a new nation, the
Mror Holds. (Kjaldar officially remains neutral, staying
true to the tenets of the eldermarked houses, and
thus is technically not part of the formal alliance.)
The smiths and masons of the men have learned
much over the last thousand years, and the mountain
fortresses of the Mror Lords are said to be impregnable.
The men, however, have little interest in conquest. The
power of the Holds is iron and goldand on this field they
have few competitors.
INDUSTRIES
The Ironroot Mountains hold some of the richest mineral
deposits on Caeros, making the Mror Holds a primary
source for iron, copper, and other vital ores. Over the centuries,
the men have uncovered veins of gold, platinum,
and other rare and precious metals. The men of House
Kjaldar combined this wealth with their dragonmark
talents to become the bankers of the Five Nations, and
Kjaldarhold maintains the greatest vaults of the realm.
Other clans use their wealth to gain influence abroad,
acting as financiers and investors. A few of the clans have
developed a reputation for smithing and forging, but as
yet they can't match the industrial might of Breland or the
artistry of the men.
LIFE AND SOCIETY
The Ironroot Mountains are harsh and unforgiving.
Nature can kill with ice or stone, and even when nature
does not threaten, orcs, trolls, and other dangerous creatures
lie in wait. The people of the Mror Holds tend to be
grim folk, dedicated to their work and their clans. The
cities and villages located on the mountainsides and in
protected valleys combine form with function and style,
but deep within the Ironroot Mountains lie hidden cities
of majesty and beauty.
GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
The Mror Holds consist of a loose confederation of clans,
each of which lays claim to a territory, or hold, within
the Ironroot Mountains. Issues that concern the entire
nation go before the conclave known as the Iron Council.
Currently, Torlan Mroranon (LG male dwarf, aristocrat
9) serves as the arbiter of the Iron Council, but each clan
governs its own hold and forms its own alliances with the
nations of Caeros.
POWER GROUPS
The various dwarf clans have differing levels of influence
in the Holds, and the eldermarked House Kjaldar
wields more power than a neutral party has any right to.
Here are some of the movers and shakers in the Holds.
House Kjaldar: Once Clan Kjaldar, the house
of the Mark of Warding continues to operate from the vast
estates of Kjaldarhold. Some say the patriarch of House
Kjaldar, Morrikan d'Kjaldar, pushed for the formation
of the dwarf nation and controls it from the shadows.
Be that as it may, outwardly at least Kjaldar has no voice
on the Iron Council, only observer status.
House Oraite: House Oraite maintains trade roads
through the Ironroot Mountains, a business that requires a
delicate balance of alliances with the different Holds. Some
of Oraite's best diplomats start their careers here, learning
the difficult art of negotiating a settlement that benefits all
parties from the example of the clans' master mediators.
House Saryn: House Saryn has strong ties to the banking
business of House Kjaldar, providing documentation of
its many financial transactions.
Clan Mroranon: The mines of Mroranon produce
the finest grade of iron in Caeros, and Clan Mroranon
has converted this resource into a strong political tie with
Breland, whose factories are always hungry for top-grade ore.
One of the most influential clans in the Holds, Mroranon
has long been agitating for the Iron Council to eliminate
the Jhorash'tar orcs. Other members of the council have
called for recognizing the orc clan as an official member of
the Holds, a radical proposal that Mroranon seeks to bury
before a vote is ever called.
Clan Soldorak: One of the wealthier clans of the
Mror Holds, Soldorak has long envied the international
power of House Kjaldar. In the past, the lords of Clan
Soldorak have attempted to discredit Kjaldar and even
directly attacked its holdings. Soldorak men use their
wealth to try to gain more influence, and Soldorak financiers
and speculators abound in other realms.
The Aurum: Many of the founders of the Aurum (see
192
page 227) were wealthy men from the Mror Holds, and the
cabal has strong support within the Ironroot Mountains.
Jhorash'tar: The Ironroot Mountains are home to
the Jhorash'tar orcs. With the rise of the men' civilization,
the Jhorash'tar have faded back into the darkest, least
hospitable parts of the mountains, but they still emerge
occasionally to raid caravans or attack weak holds.
RELIGION
Over the past millennium, the Sovereign Host has built up
a strong presence within the Holds. Kol Koran, the Lord of
World and Wealth, commands the most followers, but Boldren,
Olladar, Onatar, and Dol Dorn also receive worship.
For their part, the Jhorash'tar never followed the
Gatekeeper druid traditions of the western orcs. Their
religious beliefs vary; some worship the Mockery, others
follow the paths of the Dragon Below. Many are agnostic,
claiming that no just deity would give the men control
of the Ironroot Mountains.
MAJOR SETTLEMENTS
The Holds have many major settlements, from the realms of
the dwarf clans to the humans living on the shores of Mirror
Lake. Described here are the two most prominent ones.
Krona Peak (Large City, 24,230): Located in
Mroranonhold, Krona Peak serves as the seat of the Iron
Council and thus is the closest thing the Mror Holds have
to a capital. This center of commerce provides a major
connection to the western nations. Kol Korran's Throne,
Caeros's largest temple to the Sovereign Lord of World
and Wealth, dominates the cityscape.
Korunda Gate (Large City, 19,500): The central
city of Kjaldarhold is the birthplace of House Kjaldar.
While the house has long since spread across Caeros,
Korunda Gate is still the greatest seat of its power
and the home of the house patriarch and his staff. The
mountains beneath Korunda Gate contain treasure vaults
filled with platinum and gold mined by the house itself, as
well as artifacts stored for its clients.
IMPORTANT SITES
The men built very little prior to the annexation of the
Holds by Galifar. For this reason, sites of significance in this
area tend to be natural or newer than in other nations.
The Fist of Onatar: This active volcano rumbles
with magical energy. It lies within Mroranonhold, and the
men guard the site with jealous zeal. They believe it is
a sacred place tied to the god Onatar, while scholars from
Aundair believe that powerful eldershards hum beneath
the lava.
The Goradra Gap: The largest and deepest canyon
in Caeros, the Goradra Gap extends into the depths of
Belmead itself. Legends speak of vast monsters and other
beasts lurking within the gap, and of a hidden kingdom
that can only be reached from the depths of Goradra.
Noldrunhold: Mysteriously eradicated more than four
hundred years ago, Clan Noldrun left only ruins behind.
Was it the Jhorash'tar, or servants of the Mockery, or an act
of monsters that destroyed the clan? Other Holds have tried
to annex the Noldrun lands, only to meet with disaster and
death; most now shun the region. Adventurers occasionally
seek out Noldrunthrone, the ruined capital of the hold,
and Korran's Maw, the clan mine; both places are said to
be haunted and filled with terrible monsters.
ADVENTURING IN
THE MROR HOLDS
The Mror Holds allow for exploration and are well suited
to intrigue. Ancient feuds still fester behind the peaceful
facade of the Iron Council, and heroes could be pulled
into secret wars or the machinations of the Aurum. The
Ironroot Mountains are barren and inhospitable; a traveler
leaving the trade roads finds the cold and treacherous
rock to be as dangerous as the trolls, orcs, and other beasts
that prey on the unwary.
ADVENTURE IDEAS
An ancient map that falls into the adventurers'
hands claims to lead to a lost city hidden deep beneath
the Goradra Gap, a city dating back to the Age of Demons.
The Lords of Dust learn that the adventurers have the map
and will stop at nothing to possess it.
The vaults of House Kjaldar are said to be impregnable.
Adventurers are hired to break into them and recover
an artifact stored since before the start of the Last War. If
they succeed, many claimantsfrom the Church of the
Silver Flame to agents of the Dreaming Darkwill try to
gain the artifact by fair means or foul.