can be purchased on a regular basis. Magewrights are
more abundant in the towns and cities, and even the least
well-to-do city has everbright lanterns to light at least the major
thoroughfares and exchanges.
In a city, law and order prevailsor at least it tries to.
A city watch patrols the streets, a local garrison protects the
trade roads and caravan routes passing nearby. Courts and
councilors hold sway over matters of law, deciding disputes
and determining guilt or innocence through something
akin to due process.
ECONOMIC MEANS
From the rural communities that dot the countryside to the
villages, towns, and cities that rise wherever need and circumstance
come together, the people of Caeros fall into
three economic categories: poor, middle class, and wealthy.
There are ranges and degrees of wealth in each category.
Six out often people in the Five Nations are common
farmers, unskilled laborers, and tradesfolk who are in
the poor economic class, having no more than 40 or 50
silver pieces on hand at any given time, and most having
considerably less.
Three out often people are in the middle class, including
skilled laborers, prosperous traders and shop owners,
skilled artisans, most nobility, low-level adventurers, and
some members of the eldermarked families who normally
have a few hundred gold pieces or more on hand.
One out often people fall into the wealthy category,
those with access to a few thousand gold pieces at any given
time. This class includes merchant lords, barons of commerce,
the patriarchs and matriarchs of the eldermarked
families, the most popular and successful artisans, mid- to
high-level adventurers, and the ruling royalty.
EDUCATION
Throughout the Five Nations (or at least what's left of them),
formal schooling is considered a right and a necessary part
of every child's training. Rural manors maintain schools for
the sons and daughters of the peasants and laborers. Private
tutors provide an education for the children of royal and
economic nobility. In towns and cities, schools cater to
all who wish to attend. In no case is education mandatory;
however, most people understand the advantages offered to
them by the remnants of the Galifar education system.
Higher education and study is available at a number
of colleges and universities, as well as among the religious
institutions. For those who don't want to become scholars,
apprenticeships and on-the-job training replace higher education.
The exception to this system involves magewrights and
wizards, who must attend one of the magical colleges for at
least some of their training.
ADVENTURERS
The heroes of the world, adventurers often break most
of the rules concerning life in Caerosand when a
rule doesn't exist to cover what they do, they invent one.
Adventurers move easily among all walks of life. They can
champion the common folk, protect the middle class, or
engage in missions for the wealthy.
Adventurers form into groups, knowing that whatever