wizardry in Arcanix and helps mentor the next generation
of wizards and magewrights.
Nobles and Vassal Lords: Aundair has a powerful
collection of landed gentry, nobles granted land and title
by the crown. From their manor houses and keeps, the
lords protect their vassal farmers and provide troops and
taxes for Aurala to use for the greater defense of the crown
and nation. Some of the most powerful and influential
nobles include Lord Darro ir'Lain, whose Knights Arcane
have traditionally provided much of Aundair's military
punch; Lady Selini ir'Torn; and Lord Kenth ir'Kenthi.
RELIGION
Most of the people of Aundair follow the teachings of the
Silver Flame or worship the Sovereign Host, particularly
the gods Arawai, Aureon, and Olladra. Sometimes a minor
cult attains popularity for a brief time in Fairhaven, and
churches devoted to other gods can be found there.
MAJOR SETTLEMENTS
Farms and vassal estates can be found throughout Aundair,
and most of the population lives outside the cities and
towns. Three major settlements have significant populations,
and one village gains prominence not because of its
size but because of its ties to the Arcane Congress and the
wizardly community.
Fairhaven (Metropolis, 92,500): The city of
Fairhaven dates back to the days before the formation of
Galifar. Its foundation was laid when the Five Nations were
young and humans were new to the land. Today, the Royal
Court of Fairhold dominates the metropolis's impressive
skyline. The massive complex, whose towers jut some eighteen
stories into the sky, includes offices for the working
government, public courts and halls, a huge hall of
records, Aurala's personal guards, and the living quarters
for the royal family. Since the signing of the Thronehold
Accords, the Five Nations have once again opened their
embassies, and most of the other recognized nations have
also found offices in the city. All of the eldermarked
houses have enclaves in Fairhaven, and it's easy to do
business in the city.
The market exchanges of Fairhaven bustle with activity
from early in the morning to well past dark. In addition
to the fresh produce and magewright goods that reach the
exchanges from the Aundair countryside, the great Distant
Exchange constantly displays goods from around the
continent. Black market and illegal goods are hard to come
by in this nation, so the cost for such items is higher.
The main campus of the University of Wynarn winds
its way through the city's Knowledge Ward. Though the
center of learning stayed open throughout the Last War,
there were times when the professors outnumbered the
students. Recently, the university issued an open call to
all the recognized nations, inviting students to apply
for enrollment. This invitation has had the unexpected
effect of bringing a large number of goblinoid and other
uncommon humanoid applicants to the campus, which has
called for some adjustments on the administration's part.
If the peace lasts, the university hopes to fill its halls to
capacity within three years.
Aundair adheres to the Galifar Code of Justice, an
intricate system of laws and regulations that once helped
maintain order throughout the united kingdom. The laws
presume innocence, provide for judgment by peers, and
establish a complex legal system. If someone winds up in
trouble with the law, it is highly recommended that the
subject obtain the services of a solicitor or councilor skilled
in the Code of Justice. Even with laws and enforcers, the
Code leaves enough loopholes and gaps in the system for
experienced criminals to take advantage of. Therefore, as
in all of the Five Nations, a thriving underworld exists in
Fairhaven's shadows.
Stormhome (Large city, 14,280): The large island
off the northern coast of Aundair was once a bleak, stormblasted
outpost at the entrance to Scions Sound. In 347
YK, House Larenthil petitioned to turn the island into
a house enclave, and the crown relentedwith the caveat
that it could maintain a protective force there to monitor
comings and goings at sea. Three years later, the weather
mages of Larenthil had changed the climate of the island.
While cold weather and storms raged around it, Stormhome
became a temperate paradise.
Today, Stormhome remains the crowning achievement
of House Larenthil's skills and abilities. The city that bears
the island's name serves as the primary headquarters for
the house and the seat of its matriarch. Aundair considers
the island to be an extension of its nation, and House
Larenthil continues to permit an Aundairian force to use
part of the island as a base. The Aundairian navy patrols
the northern coast, stopping at Stormhome for supplies
and to escape the bitter wind that blows across the bay.
In addition to the presence of many of the leading
members of House Larenthil and their retainers, a
number of other wealthy nobles regularly visit the city.
It has become something of a vacation spot, and House
Larenthil has permitted House Ghammara to establish
elaborate resorts within the city limits to cater to its guests.
During the Last War, the place was mostly left alone by
attacking forces due to House Larenthil's neutrality and
diplomatic position. It became a meeting place for spies
and a hotbed of clandestine activities, a reputation that it
continues to hold in the current day.
Passage (Large City, 16,300): The city of Passage sits
on the shores of Lake Galifar, serving as a crossroads for
commerce in western Aundair. In addition to a thriving
fishing community and a center for trade, Passage contains
a huge House Oraite enclave. This enclave serves as one of
the house's operation centers and makes the members of
the house prominent among the city's social elite. One key
feature of the city is the lightning rail station that includes
a massive maintenance and repair facility.
Arcanix (Village, 800): The village of Arcanix, located
along the southeastern banks of Lake Galifar, is known for
the floating towers of wizardry that surround it. These towers
serve as places of arcane learning, where the tower mentors
help train the next generation of magewrights and wizards.
The village also houses the Arcane Congress, a think tank of
wizards and sorcerers charged with improving life through
the application of magic. The members of the congress
oversee the towers of wizardry, advise Aundair's queen on