LIFE AND SOCIETY
Breland's citizenry is divided almost equally between rural
and urban communities. Along Breland's northern expanse,
farms and ranches stretch from the Graywall Mountains in
the west to the Seawall Mountains in the east. Rich soil and
moderate rainfall make the lives of the farmers relatively
easy, and all but the farms nearest the Mournland have
stayed prosperous through times of war and peace. The
southern section of the nation, dominated by a number of
tropical forests including the great King's Forest, houses
plantations and hunting reserves.
Rural life resembles that in the other nations, with
perhaps a bit more emphasis on personal freedom and a
142
drive to succeed and improve one's station in life. Much of
Breland's rural citizenry never experienced firsthand the
horrors of the Last War. Only the regions to the extreme
northeast and those communities closest to Droaam ever
participated in actual battles, and no foreign power ever
penetrated very far into the nation. Every village and
town and city, however, sent soldiers to the front, and
every family knows someone who never returned from
the war. Memorial markers are found around every thorp
and hamlet, and the great cities have extensive memorials
dedicated to those who perished defending Breland from
its enemies.
What makes Breland different from most of the
other nations is the number of urban centers that have
grown up within its borders. Not only does it boast the
largest metropolis in all of Caeros, Pran, but even
its smaller cities and towns have a cosmopolitan and
worldly air to them. The Brelish attitude of acceptance
and tolerance naturally attracts people of all races to its
confines. Hence, the nation boasts large populations of
most of the common races, as well as goblinoids, orcs,
and a variety of intelligent monster races. This mix of
people from different regions and of different cultures
is much more dramatic in Breland's urban centers, particularly
in Pran.
Northern Breland enjoys a mild climate. Wet springs
give way to warm summers that blend into mild autumns
and relatively temperate winters. The temperature rarely
drops below freezing, even in the dead of winter, except
in the highlands around the Blackcaps. In the south, from
Wroat to the Straits of Shargon, the weather ranges from
hot and muggy to hot and rainy, with only occasional periods
of warm and dry.
The roads throughout Breland are well maintained
and constantly patrolled. In addition to the House Oraite
trade roads, the crown maintains the original king's roads
that date back to ancient Galifar. Lightning rail lines connect
Pran and Wroat with Aundair, Thrane, and Zilargo,
for those needing to travel at a faster pace.
Breland has welcomed a large contingent of Cyran
refugees, providing them a place to call home since the
destruction of Cyre and the creation of the Mournland.
The Cyrans have set up their own town of New Cyre to
the southeast of Starilaskur, where they hope eventually
to gather as many of the survivors of their doomed nation
as possible. Other Cyran communities can be found in
Wroat, Pran, Shavalant, and Ardev. Most of the Brelish
feel obliged to make a place for the refugees, but there are
factions within Breland whose members recall the bitter
battles the two nations engaged in over the course of the
war. For these factions, the doom that Cyre experienced
was just punishment for the evil it had committed during
the long years of war. They have no love to show the refugees,
nor pity in their hearts; just a burning hatred and a
desire to drive them from the nationor, in some cases, to
finish the job that Cyre itself started and wipe them from
the face of Estium.