LISTENING TO THE VOICE
The Voice of the Silver Flame whispers from the depths
of the everburning fire located in the Cathedral of the
Silver Flame in Flamekeep. The Voice, said to belong to
Tira Miron, usually communicates through the Keeper
of the Flame (currently Jaela Daran). Others of the faith
sometimes hear the crackling Voice, and many make
pilgrimages to Flamekeep in hopes of participating in
just such a miracle. However, some scholars outside the
faith believe the Voice isn't Tira Miron, at least not solely.
Some believe that in rare instances the demonic entity
that shares the flame with Tira and the rainbow-winged
serpent can speak through the silver fire. In these rare
instances, these scholars believe, the demon lures people
on to acts of terrible evil by whispering to them that they
will accomplish good works. Some of the crusades and
inquisitions undertaken on behalf of the Silver Flame
may fall into this category.
The Church of the Silver Flame, naturally, rejects
this theory.
208
ceremony and occasion warrant, but she secretly seeks
to return her family to power and gloryand she has
begun to make overtures to foreign powers to help her
accomplish this.
All the dragonmarked houses have a presence in
Thrane, but none of them use the nation as a headquarters
due to the restrictions placed upon them by the
religious laws of the theocracy. Still, as long as there is
money to be made, the houses will continue to play a part
in Thrane society.
POWER GROUPS
The Church of the Silver Flame holds all power in Thrane.
While this power may appear to be held firmly by the
Keeper of the Flame, in truth her Council of Cardinals
wields much of it and sometimes operates in conflict with
the wishes and pronouncements of the Keeper.
Council of Cardinals: This group of powerful
church leaders administers both the workings of the
church and the functions of the government. In theory,
the cardinals answer to the Keeper of the Flame. In practice,
they run the church and the government, only dealing
with the Keeper on issues that require divine attention
and interaction with the Voice of the Flame. The cardinals
believe that they know best when it comes to running the
government and the church, and they leave the Keeper to
deal with the well-being of the spirit of the nation. This
arrangement has led to problems between the Council
and the Keeper in the past, but the current Keeper seems
interested more in divine and spiritual matters than the
intricacies of secular administration. This is not to say
that every member of the council is corrupt and has personal
interests at heart, but many of them are, especially
High Cardinal Krozen (LE male human, cleric 12 Silver
Flame), who treats Thrane as his personal kingdom.
Knights of Thrane: The Crown Knights, also known
as the Knights of Thrane, pledged to defend crown and
country when the order was established during the time
of Regent Thrane, son of King Galifar I. Over the
centuries, this order of knights has served the regents
of Thrane faithfully. When the Church of the Silver
Flame refused to acknowledge the authority of the crown
and turned the nation into a theocracy, the Knights of
Thrane were ready to battle on behalf of the crown.
The heir apparent defused the situation by bowing to
the Keeper of the Flame, realizing that Thrane would
be destroyed if it succumbed to internal strife while
the Last War raged on. Today, the Knights of Thrane
continue to work for the nation, serving Queen Diani
in name but answering to the Council of Cardinals in
practice. Captain Otherro (LG male human, paladin 8
Silver Flame) commands the Knights of Thrane. His
heart belongs to Diani, but his immortal soul belongs
to the Silver Flame, and he hopes he is never forced to
choose between the two.
RELIGION
The Church of the Silver Flame holds sway throughout
Thrane. The Sovereign Host has a small presence,
particularly Dol Arrah and Dol Dorn.
MAJOR SETTLEMENTS
All of Thrane's population centers are located in the
nation's eastern regions, along the waterways that spill
into Scions Sound.
Flamekeep (Metropolis, 150,000): Flamekeep
grew as the Church of the Silver Flame gained prominence.
Built around the impressive Cathedral of the
Silver Flame, the city displays Flamic architecture at its
grandest and most inspiring. As the capital of the nation's
secular and religious authorities, Flamekeep is a place of
power and influence.
IMPORTANT SITES
Thrane's sites include a number of holy landmarks, war
monuments, and historical locations.
The Chamber of the Flame: Located deep within
the Cathedral of the Silver Flame, this is the place where
the holy light of the Silver Flame burns and the Keeper of
the Flame comes to commune with the Voice of the Silver
Flame. Pilgrims devoted to the faith travel to this holy site
to pray, pay homage, and hope for miracles.
Shadukar: The ruins of the city of Shadukar, and
the Burnt Wood around them, bear witness to one of the
most terrible defeats suffered by Thrane during the Last
War. When it was overrun and set ablaze by the combined
might of Karrnathi and Cyran forces, more than seven
thousand Thranes lost their lives.
ADVENTURING IN THRANE
Perhaps the most repressive and least welcoming of the Five
Nations, the theocracy of Thrane stands as a contradiction
that many adventurers will find frustrating to deal with.
It proclaims to be a bastion of lawful good ideals (and it
is), but it fosters as much corruption as any secular nation.
The average Thrane is religious and proud of his faith and
nation, but he isn't a fanatic. As long as you do no obvious
evil, you won't find trouble in Thrane. However, Thrane's
religious-based laws tend to be more stringent than the
Code of Galifar, and punishments more brutal. Arcane
magic isn't given as wide a venue in Thrane, but divine
magic more than takes up the slack.
ADVENTURE IDEAS
The Keeper of the Flame needs adventurers to perform
a mission inspired by the Voice of the Silver Flame.
However, the Keeper doesn't want the Council of Cardinals
or the Knights of Thrane to know about it.
A representative of Darguun has come to Thrane
to negotiate additional treaties, but the Council of Cardinals
has locked the goblin away and refuses to deal with
him. Now Queen Diani wants to quietly free the goblin
and send him away before the act leads to a new round of
hostilities. She turns to adventurers for help.
A priest of the Silver Flame seeks adventurers to
aid her in a quest to enter the ruins of Shadukar and
perform a ritual to put the dead to restdead who seem to
be walking and haunting the region around the ruins.
209
VALENAR
Capital: Taer Valaestas
Population: 70,000 (43% elves, 28% humans, 15% halfelves,
5% halflings, 5% hobgoblins, 4% other races)
Exports: Horses, mercenary services
Languages: Elven, Common
Ten thousand years ago, the elves of Aerenal established a
settlement on the southern shore of Khorvaire. Initially,
the hobgoblin emperor was pleased to have a center for trade
with the elves, but over the course of the next century this
relationship soured and turned to war. The elves could not
match the numbers of the goblinoids and were driven back
to Aerenal. War between the empires continued sporadically
over the next few centuries. Ultimately, both hobgoblin
and elf agreed to respect the current bordersthe elves
would hold their island-continent, and the hobgoblins
would continue to dominate the mainland.
Millennia passed, and the hobgoblin Empire of
Dhakaan crumbled to dust. By the time of King Jarot of
Galifar, the land once contested by hobgoblins and elves
was part of the realm of Cyre. Much of the region was
sparsely populated, with the occasional human village,
migrating halfling tribe, and a handful of hobgoblin clans
hiding in the shadows. When the Last War began, Cyre
came under attack from all sides and quickly sought allies.
While the Undying Court of Aerenal had no interest in
returning to Khorvaire, the Cyrans drew the interest of
the Valaes Tairn. These militant elves had long sought an
opportunity to test their blades in epic battle, and they
were only too willing to enter the fray.
For decades the elves fought on the side of Cyre,
battling Talenta warbands, hobgoblin mercenaries, and
the forces of Breland and Karrnath. They fought for the
love of battle and gold, not loyalty to Cyre. Then, in 956
YK, the elves took action that surprised the Cyrans and
the other Five Nations. War Leader Shaeras Vadallia proclaimed
that his people had ties to the land from a time
before human feet touched the soil of Khorvaire, and that
his soldiers had restored those ties with spilled blood.
Vadallia declared himself high king of the new nation of
Valenar, and his warriors have been fortifying their position
and slowly expanding their borders ever since.
The Valenar elves have no interest in peace, but they
participated in the talks at Thronehold to gauge the measure
of their enemies and to gain acceptance in the human
courts. Today, Valenar warbands continue to clash with
Karrnathi forces, and raids into the Talenta Plains and
Q'barra occur on a regular basis. Now that the Last War has
come to an end, it remains to be seen whether the Treaty
of Thronehold can end this elven aggression.
INDUSTRIES
The Valenar elves demonstrate an uncanny knack for the
art of war and the breeding of horses. The bloodline of
Valenar horses can be traced all the way back to the warhorses
of ancient Xen'drik, and the creatures have no equal
among the native horses of Khorvaire. The weaponsmiths
of Valenar create masterwork bows and fine densewood
weapons. Beyond this, Valenar primarily exports the service
of its warriors, brokered through House Deneith. Few
people trust the Valenar elves or are comfortable hiring
them in large numbers. Valenar elves, however, are the
most talented cavalry troops in Khorvaire, and small units
are often hired for specific tasks.
LIFE AND SOCIETY
The elves of Valenar venerate the memories of their
warrior ancestors, the giant slayers of ancient Xen'drik.
Where the elves of Aerenal honor their ancestors through
devotion and prayer, the Valaes Tairn believe that imitation
is the truest form of flattery. Heroic deeds and glory in
battle are the two goals of the Valaes Tairn, and their society
revolves around this principle. The primary social unit
of the elves is the warclan, a group of two hundred to five
hundred elves, subdivided into smaller tactical units called
warbands that consist of eight to twelve individuals. Unless
assigned to guard an area, a warclan remains in constant
motion. The Valenar elves slowly seek to expand their territory,
but they are more interested in battle than land.
Q'barra and Karrnath remain frequent targets of raids,
and Karrnath has established forts in the Talenta Plains to
engage the elves before they reach their borders.
A member of the Valaes Tairn values his horse and his
patron ancestor above all things. Determined at birth by
the clerics of the Valaes Tairn, the spirit of a patron ancestor
watches over the warrior, and the elf does everything
in his power to emulate and honor his patron. Males and
females hold equal positions among the elves of Valenar,
and both ride into battle. The Valenar elves have a taste
for art, music, and dance, but everything revolves around
war. Their fine weapons and delicate armor are their works
of art, and their songs recount the great deeds of the elf
warriors of Xen'drik.
Humans still live in Valenar. Once citizens of Cyre,
these peasants and farmers have simply changed overlords.
The elves have no interest in agriculture, so the humans
produce food for the elf warriors in exchange for protection,
and life goes on as it does in any farming community.
GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
The Valaes Tairn consists of a league of individual warclans,
not an organized legion. All Valenar elves owe fealty
to the high king. Forty-five warclans roam Valenar. At
any time, twenty of the warclansthe Host of Valenar
are under the direct command of the high king. Ten of
these maintain order throughout the realm, while the rest
engage in military operations dictated by the crown. A
warclan's service in the Host of Valenar lasts for ten years,
after which a new warclan takes its place.
The other warclans are free to conduct military
operations and raids as they see fit, though the high king
can call upon them as he deems necessary. Many young
elves leave Valenar for a decade or so in search of personal
glory and adventure.
A warrior who performs a service for the high king
may receive a title and a tract of land. However, the
elves prefer to remain in constant motion, and few lords
maintain a manor or keep.
210
POWER GROUPS
Due to the fluid structure of Valenar, few groups have great
influence in the land. Each warclan is a military force to be
reckoned with, but most are more concerned with winning
glory in battle than with political intrigue. The dragonmarked
houses operate in Taer Valaestas, but only House
Lyrandar has significant influence in the realm. House
Vadalis has been banned for horse stealing, and Houses
Thuranni and Phiarlan are not welcome.
House Lyrandar: The half-elves of House Lyrandar
have been granted significant parcels of land inside
Valenar in exchange for raincalling services and agricultural
assistance. Lyrandar also helps with many administrative
tasks in Taer Valaestas. While the half-elves maintain
a neutral position, there is no question that they have
garnered influence within Valenar.
Tke Keepers of the Past: The priesthood of the Valenar
elves, the Keepers of the Past maintain the memory of the
great elf heroes of Xen'drik. Members of the order travel
with warclans to ensure that the warriors bring honor to their
ancestors. The Keepers hold tremendous power; if they turned
against the high king, many elves would take their side.
RELIGION
The Valenar elves share the religious beliefs of the elves of
Aerenal, but with a slightly different focus. They respect the
councilors of the Undying Court, but have a greater reverence
for the elven heroes of Xen'drik. Each warrior has a
patron ancestor and seeks to emulate his ancestor through
deeds that let the ancestor live again, after a fashion
The spiritual leaders of the Valaes Tairn, the Keepers
of the Past, include both clerics of the Undying Court and
bards. War leaders train in bardic traditions to inspire
their troops and recount the deeds of their ancestors.
MAJOR SETTLEMENTS
Most communities in Valenar are farming villages or
hamlets inhabited by humans and half-elves. Six strongholds
on the borders of the realm, each the size of a small
town, serve as way stations for traveling warclans.
Taer Valaestas (Large City, 19,060): The Valaes Tairn
have little love for cities. But every kingdom needs a throne,
and High King Vadallia (N male elf, bard 3/fighter 10) has
his seat in Taer Valaestas. Located in the center of the kingdom,
Taer Valaestas is a city built for war. Towers and walls
formed of stone and densewood are designed to resist fire and
force. In addition to the royal palace, outposts of most of the
dragonmarked houses, and a marketplace where foreigners
come to sell their wares, Taer Valaestas contains the primary
temple of the Keepers of the Past and a vast arena used for
training, races, and other displays of equestrian skill.
IMPORTANT SITES
In addition to the Cyran cities that fell during the Last
War, Valenar contains ancient hobgoblin and elven ruins
dating back to the Empire of Dhakaan.
Taer Sadaen: This fortress, built during the Age of
Monsters, was the site of a terrible final battle between the
elves and hobgoblins. The ruins have never been found. A
powerful elven curse pulled the fortress out of time, and
when the stars and the rings of Siberys align, Taer Sadaen
reappears for a night, the battle still raging.
ADVENTURING IN VALENAR
Valenar has a diverse environment, including forests, rolling
steppes, fertile plains, and barren desert. The key to
traveling through Valenar is not to appear to be a challenge
to the Valaes Tairn. The nation is on a war footing, and
young warriors are always looking for a chance to prove
their skills. Warbands won't challenge peaceful caravans
within their borders, but well-armed soldiers or adventurers
invite attack, especially if they present themselves with
a bold and defiant demeanor.
House Orien runs trade roads between Taer Valaestas,
Pylas Maradal, and the two largest fortresses in the realm.
House Lyrandar has been using the plains of Valenar as
a testing ground for its airships, and Valenar serves as a
nexus for this form of transportation.
ADVENTURE IDEAS
There are a number of ranches across Valenar where the
elves' horses are bred and trained. These fine steeds are worth
a fortune, and an ambitious heir of House Vadalis has a plan
to raid a ranch and drive a herd of horses back to the border.
A Valenar warband raided a caravan crossing the
Talenta Plains. Among the captives taken by the elves is the
son of a Karrnathi noble. Adventurers are hired to track
the warband and rescue the young heir before the elves get
too deep into Valenar and rejoin with their warclan.
Z1LARGO
Capital: Trolanport
Population: 250,000 (60% gnomes, 16% humans, 11%
dwarves, 7% kobolds, 6% other races)
Exports: Alchemical goods, education, entertainment,
maps, precious stones, ships
Languages: Gnome, Common, Dwarven, Goblin
The gnomes of Khorvaire have lived in the area known as
Zilargo for thousands of years. Situated between the Howling
Peaks and the Seawall Mountains, the gnomes have
thrived despite incursions by and conflicts with goblinoids,
kobolds, and humans. They have always managed to maintain
their independence, winning battles with words that
they could never win with swords. After Galifar established
his kingdom, he eventually set his sights on Zilargo. The
gnomes met his forces in the valley north of Dragonroost
and immediately surrendered. During the negotiations,
the gnomes became an independent province within the
kingdom. Galifar left in victory, and the gnomes secured
a safe place in the new kingdom all without spilling a
drop of blood. Relying on wisdom and cunning, along
with elemental-bound items and illusions, gnomes can be
surprisingly dangerous opponents.
During the Last War, Zilargo spent part of the conflict
as a neutral observer before aligning with Breland in 962
YK. From that point on, the gnomes provided intelligence
and elemental-bound weapons to Breland while avoiding
most combat. As a result, Zilargo emerged from the Last
War stronger than ever, and Breland owes the gnomes a
debt for the services they rendered.
INDUSTRIES
For a small nation, Zilargo exports a large array of goods and
services. The gnomes are known for diplomatic expertise, and
the demand for gnomish translators, advocates, and mediators
is high. House Sivis regulates these services, as well as maintaining
a lock on communications in central Khorvaire.
The gnomes' talent for words extends beyond mediation
and scribing. Gnome poets and orators are celebrated
across Khorvaire, while Zil bards weave words and magic
together to produce dazzling shows of illusion and song.
In addition, the Korranherg Chronicle, full of news and stories,
reaches common folk throughout the Five Nations. The
Library of Korranberg and its associated colleges don't
quite measure up to the magical research and artificing
techniques going on in Aundair, but it might possess the
greatest source of general knowledge on the continent.
The gnomes of Trolanport are among the greatest
shipwrights and cartographers of Khorvaire, and even
Lhazaar princes travel there to commission gnome-made
vessels. Tremendous wealth pours from the jewel mines of
Zalanberg, and the gnomes have discovered a method for
binding elementals into vehicles, armor, and weapons.
LIFE AND SOCIETY
Zilareo's beautiful architecture fills the towns and cities
of the gnome nation, and the streets vibrate with bright
colors, song, and good cheer. Friendly, helpful inhabitants
seem genuinely interested in talking with strangers, and
theft and violent crimes rarely occur.
In truth, while the average gnome always makes time
to listen to a stranger, this behavior has more to do with
the gnomes' thirst for knowledge than with sympathy for
outsiders. Gnomes believe that every piece of information,
no matter how trivial, may someday have value.
Zilargo society is bound together by a complex web of
favors, secrets, and debts. For more than eight centuries,
an invisible order of spies and assassins has been watching
from the shadows, gathering information on all internal
activities and using this knowledge to eliminate threats to
society. Every citizen of Zilargo knows that anyone could
be an agent of this secret order. Most gnomes actually are
good-natured and cheerful, but there's always the chance
that a friendly face masks more clandestine activities.
GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
The Triumvirate rules Zilargo. This council, composed of a
representative from each of the major cities of Korranberg,
Trolanport, and Zalanberg, was founded as an oversight
committee to monitor the behavior of students and patrons
of the Library of Korranberg. The powers and duties of the
Triumvirate slowly expanded to cover the entire nation.
Each of the three cities has its own Council of Nine, gnomes
drawn from wealthy families who manage local civic concerns.
In theory, the city's representative to the Triumvirate
is democratically selected from its council. In practice, the
process is anything but democratic, as secret wars of words
and blackmail determine power within each council.
The Trust, the secret order that protects Zil society,
reports directly to the Triumvirate. It has a coordinator
in each city who works with the local council. Few realize
that the Triumvirate possesses an impressive vault of
information concerning political, military, and economic
activities that rivals that of the Library, thanks to the work
of the Trust.
POWER GROUPS
The following groups have power in Zilargo.
House Kundarak: House Kundarak has a strong presence
in Zilargo, with large outposts in all the major cities.
House Sivis: The House of Scribing was born in Zilargo,
and Korranberg is still the seat of its power. Just as House
Deneith recruits mercenaries from many lands, Sivis acts as a
clearinghouse for gnome translators, mediators, and purveyors
of similar services. Sivis places great stock in the neutrality
of its agents, and claims to have no ties to the Triumvirate,
the Library, or any other national powerbut some believe
that House Sivis is the true power behind the nation.
The Aurum: A number of members of the three
Councils of Nine are secretly members of the Aurum.
This is a dangerous game, since the Trust watches for this
sort of corruption.
The Library of Korranberg: Like the dragonmarked
houses, the Library of Korranberg is almost an independent
power in its own right. More information about the
Library can be found on page 242.
The Korranberg Chronicle: The Korranberg Chronicle
originated in Zilargo and spread throughout the Five Nations
212
during the Last War. Considered an unbiased and informative
source of news, the Chronicle enjoys wide distribution
thanks to a deal with House Orien, and a diverse readership
scrambles to get the latest edition three times each week.
The Trust: This secret organization maintains order
within Zilargo. Despite its sinister overtones, it generally
acts in the best interests of its citizens.
RELIGION
The people of Zilargo are extremely broad-minded when it
comes to religion. Most gnomes try a few religions before
settling on a single patron deity. Some never make a final
choice; there are gnomes who attend and even perform
services for both the Sovereign Host and the Silver Flame.
Temples to virtually all religions can be found in the major
cities of Zilargo. Korranberg even contains a temple dedicated
to the Dragon Below, although the adherents are more
philosophical and less disturbing than the fanatics of the
Shadow Marches. Despite this seemingly cavalier attitude,
most gnomes take religion very seriously; they simply don't
see a conflict in following more than one god.
MAJOR SETTLEMENTS
The gnomes of Zilargo place a high value on appearances.
Gnome architecture, designed for beauty, features delicate
carvings, elaborate railings and balconies, and lavish gardens.
Murals and statues are scattered throughout every community.
Most fixtures and buildings are designed for those of
small stature, but buildings constructed for the tallfolk also
exist. Korranberg and Trolanport have undergone alteration
over the centuries to accommodate travelers of other races.
Korranberg (Large City, 17,230): Nestled against the
base of the Seawall Mountains, Korranberg is the oldest city
in Zilargo. Since it is home to the famous Library and the
gnomish colleges, many aristocrats of other nations come to
study in Korranberg. The ancestral citadel of House Sivis is
located here, as well as a host of temples, including the Codex
VaultKhorvaire's largest shrine to Aureon.
Trolanport (Metropolis, 27,500): The coastal capital
of Zilargo, with its crisscrossing canals and flooded streets,
serves as the center of the gnome shipbuilding industry and
a nexus for trade of all sorts. The Tower of the Triumvirate
rises over the central portion of the city. House Kundarak,
House Sivis, and House Cannith have major outposts here,
and all of the dragonmarked houses are represented.
Zalanberg (Small City, 6,170): Hidden high in the
Seawall Mountains, Zalanberg lies at the heart of a network
of jewel mines. The mountains are treacherous, and there
is always the risk of an attack by the haka'jhar kobolds or
the goblins of Darguun. For the most part, gnomes and
dwarves inhabit the city. House Kundarak maintains a
great vault in the city, and after considerable negotiations
House Tharashk has completed construction of a large hall
for the Prospectors Guild.
IMPORTANT SITES
All kinds of goblinoid ruins can be found throughout
the nation.
Paluur Draal: This ruined city, which extends below
the surface of the earth, has belonged to gnomes, humans,
kobolds, and originally hobgoblins. The Library of Korranberg
has acquired a wealth of information from Paluur
Draal about the Empire of Dhakaan, and some believe it
still holds a wealth of hidden secrets.
ADVENTURING IN ZILARGO
Zilargo is a peaceful region, best suited to urban adventure.
A few buried ruins from the Age of Monsters are still waiting
to be discovered, but the climate is pleasant, the wildlife
mild, and few bandits or other major threats endanger
travelers. House Orien maintains trade roads between the
three major cities and the closest cities in Breland, and
since this nation is the cradle of House Sivis, communication
services are readily available.
Adventures in the cities of Zilargo can be disconcerting
to those accustomed to thinking with their swords. The
Trust takes steps to deal with anything that is perceived
as a threat to the community; a warrior who throws his
weight around may be threatened, blackmailed, drugged
and thrown out of town, or worse. Even if they avoid the
Trust, adventurers can easily be caught up in the subtle
net of debts and secrets that tie the gnomes together.
ADVENTURE IDEAS
The Kech Volaar (see page 154) hold the key to a
network of catacombs beneath Paluur Draal and have sent
soldiers to scour the labyrinth for relics of the lost empire.
The haka'jhar kobolds seize control of a gnomeoperated
jewel mine, taking a dozen miners hostage.
213
BEYOND KHORVAIRE
Plenty of action and adventure can be found across the continent
of Khorvaire. More lands of wonder, mystery, and
danger exist beyond Khorvaire's battered shores. A quick
tour of these other places follows, with the promise that
further exploration will reveal more in future products.
AERENAL
Capital: Shae Cairdal
Population: 2,650,000 (77% elves, 19% undying, 3% halfelves,
1% other)
Exports: Crafts, bronzewood, densewood, livewood
Languages: Elven, Common, Draconic
The island-continent kingdom of the elves radiates with
magic. Jungles of bronzewood and densewood blanket the
land, and the boundaries between life and death have become
blurred and indistinct in the ancient elf civilization. The
honored dead of Aerenal walk among the living. The Sibling
Kings call upon the ancient lords of the Undying Court for
guidance, and the ranks of the elf armies overflow with heroes
who died in glorious battle. In the depths of the City of the
Dead, the elf kings of ages past chart the movement of the
Ring of Siberys and prepare for greater days to come.
The elves of Aerenal have always revered their ancestors.
Once slaves of the giant tribes of Xen'drik, the ancient
Aereni elves bought their freedom with blood and magic,
and elf bards still sing of their heroic deeds. In the center
of the island-continent lies a region where necromantic
energy flows easily, and it was here that the elf Priests of
Transition discovered the rites and rituals required to preserve
their elders beyond death. Sustained by the veneration
of their descendants, these undying elves have guided their
country for more than twenty thousand years. The strength
of the deathless has carried Aerenal through conflicts with
hobgoblins, humans, and even the dragons of Argonnessen.
Yet the Aereni have never sought to conquer; their undying
armies have always fought in defense of the nation.
Because of a superstitious fear of the walking dead
and the isolationist attitude of the elves of Aerenal, few
humans ever visit the island-continent, and those who do
rarely venture beyond the port city of Pylas Talaear. Thus,
the island-continent remains a mystery. What ancient
treasures are hidden in the City of the Dead? What magic
lurks in the Densewood Jungle? And what has driven the
conflicts between dragons and elves?
Industries
Aerenal is best known for its mystical lumber. Due to
the magical resonance of the land, densewood, livewood,
soarwood, and bronzewood trees only grow on the islandcontinent;
darkwood also flourishes in the jungles, though
these trees can be found in other lands. The elves take care
to limit the amount of this miraculous lumber that they
export. They have a long view of life, and have no intention
of deforesting the land for quick profit. The elves of Aerenal
are some of the best carpenters and woodworkers on Eberron,
and they export wooden items of all types, from works
of art to fine weapons. The lumber and leaves of darkwood
and bronzewood trees can be used to produce beautiful and
effective weapons and armor. In addition, herbs and plants
found only in the Aerenal jungles are useful for the creation
of necromantic potions and magic items, while others are
invaluable in funerary rituals and for preserving corpses.
Life and Society
Aerenal is an ancient nation. It watched the goblin empires
of Khorvaire rise and fall, saw the arrival of humans and the
common races, and observed the formation of the Kingdom
of Galifar. The elves respect their elders and are devoted to
their ancestors. Over the course of thousands of years, elf
families have developed distinctive customs, including manners
of dress, speech, art, and the use of magic.
Despite the cultural differences that have developed
over the millennia, a number of common factors tie the
Aereni families together. Most families are extremely
insular. They have a strong belief in the importance of
preserving their ancestral blood, and generally marry
within their own lines; they appear to have few of the negative
genetic markers that cause problems for human families
that maintain a closed breeding pool. Humans often see the
Aereni as cold and distant, but the truth is that most elves
are uncomfortable around strangers, especially nonelves.
They can predict the behavior of other families and read the
emotions of their own kin with ease. But the unpredictable
behavior of the shorter-lived races is disconcerting, and
until an elf comes to know and trust an outsider, he usually
shields his emotions behind an inscrutable facade.
Another trait shared by the Aereni is their attitude
toward death. For the elves, death is not something to be
feared; instead, it is embraced and ultimately welcomed.
Each family expresses this attitude in a different way. Some
wear intricate death masks. Others tattoo their faces with
skulls or similar patterns. Members of the line of Jhaelian
mimic the appearance of the undying while they are still
alive, using magical and alchemical substances to induce
rigor and apparent decomposition of the flesh. While all
these customs are striking, there are many families that
internalize their respect of the dead and do not demonstrate
it in a physical form.
As for the deathless themselves, they are concentrated in
the great cities of the nation's interior. A family estate may have
an honor guard of undying soldiers and an undying councilor
advising the living elders of the line, but the majority
of the undying gather in the City of the Dead. Regardless
of family, all Aereni respect the undying as heroes of their
race and always treat them with respect and deference. Many
humans who hear about this assume that Aerenal is a land
of vampires and zombies, when in fact nothing could be
farther from the truth. An undying soldier or councilor is
an undead creature, but it is charged with positive energy
and sustained by the devotion of its descendants. Vampires,
liches, and their ilk are abhorrent creatures that destroy life
to preserve their own existence, and they are seen as a perversion
of the undying. The creation of mindless undead,
such as zombies and skeletons, is seen as an unforgivable
insult to the body and soul of the deceased.
A final element that permeates all levels of the culture
of Aerenal is immense racial pride, a superiority complex
216
that extends thousands of years into the past. The elves of
Aerenal are among the most accomplished wizards of Eberron.
Their ancestors walk among them, and the greatest of
the undying have almost godlike power. Their nation has
driven off the dragons of Argonnessen not once, but multiple
times. The elves are not blatantly arrogant. Instead,
they are completely self-assured, possessing an unshakable
faith in their peoples' place in the world.
Government and Politics
Two forces govern Aerenal. The Sibling Kings hold all
temporal power. By ancient tradition, the nation must be
ruled by a bonded brother and sister. When either sibling
dies, the Undying Court selects a new pair to rule. The
Sibling Kings are seen as the living embodiment of Aerenal,
and the conduit for the power of the Undying Court.
The current siblings are Belaereth (LN male elf, fighter
2/cleric 12 Undying Court) and Tezaera (LN female elf,
cleric 16 Undying Court) of the line of Mendyrian.
While the Sibling Kings guide the daily affairs of
Aerenal, the Undying Court shapes the destiny of the
elf race. This council of the deathless selects, advises,
and empowers the rulers of the land. The motives of the
Undying Court cannot be understood by mortal beings;
their plans stretch out over millennia. But those who have
studied the elvesand their conflicts with the dragons in
particularare convinced that the deathless have a goal
whose fruition may still be centuries away. Indeed, since
the deathless measure existence in time spans that even
dragons cannot imagine, their machinations and plots
worry the dragons no end.
Each family owes obeisance to the Sibling Kings and
the Undying Court, but each has its own traditions of
internal rule. Some are matriarchal, some are patriarchal,
and others have their own sibling lords.
Power Groups
The dragonmarked houses have been allowed to operate
only in the port city of Pylas Talaear. Since the destruction
of the line of Vol and the more recent Shadow Schism,
most Aereni view the dragonmarked with a certain degree
of suspicion, even those of the two elven houses.
The Cairdal Blades: A small, elite force, the Cairdal
Blades consist mostly of fighters and rogues, along with a
few wizards to provide magical support. A few undying
soldiers of legendary reputation bolster the Blades' power.
Due to the traces of Phiarlan blood still coursing through
Aerenal, the Mark of Shadow appears once or twice in each
generation. Elves bearing this mark are always inducted
into the Blades and generally trained as rogues.
Superbly trained and well equipped, the Cairdal Blades
provide Aerenal with a highly effective force that can operate
across Eberron. In theory, the Blades serve the Sibling Kings,
but some believe that their first loyalty is to the Undying
Court; is there a cabal within the Court carrying out plans
that the living rulers of Aerenal know nothing about?
The Deathguard: An elite order of knights and priests,
the Deathguard is dedicated to the utter eradication of all
w
AERENAL
negatively charged undead and the necromancers who defile
the souls and bodies of the dead. Created to battle the corrupted
spirits of the realm, the Deathguard played a critical
role in the destruction of the line of Vol; to this day it continues
to fight the Blood of Vol cult. With their skull-tattooed
faces and artificially decomposed flesh, members of the Deathguard
often resemble blackguards more than paladins.
The Tairnadal: These warrior elves inhabit the northern
steppes of Aerenal, where they can better care for the warhorses
their ancestors brought from Xen'drik. The Tairnadal
have a more active and aggressive culture than the elves of
the jungle. They seek to honor their ancestors by emulating
their heroic deeds in the present. In the last few millennia,
many younger elves of southern bloodlines have left their
homes to join the Tairnadal, and what was once a minor sect
is slowly becoming a significant force on the island.
There are three major groups among the Tairnadal. The
Valaes Tairn is the largest; these elves believe that glory in
battle is the highest goal, regardless of the nature of the foe.
Most of these elves left Aerenal during the Last War and now
control the nation of Valenar. The two smaller groups are
the Silaes Tairn, who are determined to return to Xen'drik
and reclaim the ancient realm of the elves, and the Draleus
Tairn, who wish to destroy the dragons of Argonnessen.
Relations between the Tairnadal and the elves of the
Undying Court are cordial. They honor the same ancestors,
and respect the shared blood that flows through their
veins. The southern Aereni feel that the Tairnadal waste
their blood by refusing to become undying after death; the
northern elves believe the elves of the jungle spend too much
time dreaming of the past instead of acting in the present.
The Stillborn: Long ago, the line of Jhaelian began
the practice of physically altering its living members to
resemble the undead. In recent centuries, this practice has
spread to a handful of disaffected youths in other families.
In Aerenal, undeath must be earned. These younger elves
are arrogant and impatient; they believe that their souls are
being unfairly trapped in mortal flesh. Calling themselves
the Stillborn, these rebellious youths have long demanded
the right to be reborn. The elders have ignored the Stillborn,
holding to the traditions of Aerenal. But the sect may
be more dangerous than the elves believe. The Blood of Vol
is determined to seize the island of Aerenaland recently
the cult has formed an alliance with the Stillborn. Many of
the elves are willing to accept vampirism or lichdom in lieu
of becoming deathless, and the sect may play a critical role
in any Vol scheme involving Aerenal.
While elves of the line of Jhaelian share the undead
appearance of the Stillborn, the Jhaelian family is loyal to the
Undying Court; the Deathguard includes many Jhaelian elves.
This maybe a source of confusion or conflict, if adventurers
who fought the Stillborn later encounter Jhaelian elves.
Religion
The Aereni tradition of ancestor worship has evolved considerably
since the birth of the Undying Court. Instead of revering
those ancestors long dead, the Aereni venerate the dead
that remain. In the eyes of the elves, existence is a spiritual
journey that takes thousands of years to accomplisha journey
only the undying can complete. Thus, the Aereni honor the
deathless who are on this final path, but their true deity is the
combined essence of the ascended councilors, the undying
who have journeyed beyond life and death to reach the final
destination of the elven soul. While the ascendant councilors
can still take physical form, the elves do not worship them as
individual deities. Instead, they revere the ascendant union
as the ultimate embodiment of the elf race.
As a result of these beliefs, the Aereni do not fear death.
On the contrary, it is a state to be desired as the next step on
the path to ascension. However, an elf must earn the right
to walk this path. The Priests of Transition are the ambassadors
to the Undying Court, and it is these clerics who
judge the achievements of an elven life and decide the fate
of a candidate. Those who have shown tremendous heroism
and skill at arms may be reborn as undying soldiers, while
the wisest among the elves become undying councilors. An
elf judged to be flawed or foolish may be left to die, leaving
room for a stronger spirit to enter the community. But
more often than not, the Priests of Transition use raise dead
to restore a fallen elf so that he may continue his journey
along the path of existence.
The elves believe that it is the devotion of the family
that preserves the spirits of the undying. As a result, an elf
is expected to be deeply familiar with the lives of his undying
ancestors, and to show respect to all of the undying.
The Tairnadal elves of Valenar and Northern Aerenal
have a different focus. While they respect the elders of the
Undying Court, they worship the spirits of the warriors of
Xen'drikelves who fell long before the Undying Court was
raised. The Tairnadal priests are known as the Keepers of
the Past, and their ranks include both clerics and bards.
At birth (or upon joining the Tairnadal, in the case of a
half-elf or Aereni recruit) the Keepers of the Past consult
the spirits to determine an elf's patron ancestor. The
Tairnadal believe that by emulating the behavior of their
patron ancestors, they give those ancestors a chance to live
again in the current generation.
Major Settlements
Most of the inhabitants of the jungle live in communities
dedicated to a single family line. They are called estates,
but are in fact self-sufficient towns of up to three thousand
elves. The Tairnadal prefer to stay in motion, but a handful
of small villages are scattered across the northern steppes.
In addition to the estates, Aerenal has a few larger
cities where the different families mingle freely with the
undying. Three of these are described below.
One feature common to all Aereni communities is the
prevalence of monuments. The elves believe that it is vitally
important to remember and honor the deeds of their ancestors,
and monuments of densewood or stone are scattered
throughout every city or estate.
The City of the Dead (Metropolis, 42,460): While
Shae Cairdal is the seat of the rulers of Aerenal, Shae Mordai,
the City of the Dead, is the spiritual heart of the nation. Built
at the center of a flow of necromantic energy, this ancient
metropolis is the home of the Undying Court, the great council
of deathless elves that guides the destiny of the elf race.
The City of the Dead is the only city in Aerenal built
from stone instead of densewood. It is cluttered with shrines
218
and monuments dedicated to past heroes, including those
who now reside in the Undying Court as well as the ancient
heroes of Xen'drik. The city is a center for arcane study
and a place of worship, as well as the only place where
the ritual of the undying can be performed. As a result,
commerce is minimal despite the city's size, and visitors
of other races usually receive a cold welcome.
Undying soldiers can be found throughout the city,
and undying councilors can be seen consulting with arcane
scholars and advising visiting descendants. A vast area at
the center of the city is devoted to the Undying Court
itself. The Priests of Transition and the Sibling Kings
are the only living beings allowed to enter the confines of
the court. Whispered tales say that the court is far larger
than it appears, and that hundreds of mystical guardians
and traps protect it. Rumored to hold the greatest Aereni
treasures, including relics of ancient Xen'drik, the court
has never been breached by thief or force.
The City of the Dead is built on a manifest zone tied
to the plane of Irian, the Eternal Day. Within the city,
spells that use positive energy, including cure spells, are
maximized, while spells that use negative energy, including
inflict spells, are impeded.
Shae Cairdal (Metropolis, 52,460): The largest
city in Aerenal, Shae Cairdal is the capital of the Sibling
Kings. Built by the Aereni shortly after their exodus from
Xen'drik, Shae Cairdal is a fortress surrounded by walls
of densewood, although over the millennia the city has
expanded and spread far beyond the original walls. In
addition to being the royal seat, Shae Cairdal is a center
for commerce and diplomacy between the largely isolated
family lines of the elves. While members of other races are
rarely seen, the cultures and styles of the families are so
distinctive that Shae Cairdal often feels more cosmopolitan
than Sharn. In addition to a vast marketplace where different
families trade their goods, the city includes a number
of arcane universities, an enormous temple of the Priests
of Transition, and the barracks and training ground of the
army of Aerenal. The city also has the second highest population
of undying in Aerenal. It is no match for the City of
the Dead, but deathless scholars and advisors can be found
throughout Shae Cairdal, and a considerable number of
the guards and soldiers are members of the undying.
Pylas Talaear (Small City, 10,460): This port
city is the primary point of contact between Aerenal
and the rest of Eberron. It includes outposts of all of
the dragonmarked houses except for House Orien. The
primary purpose of the city is commerce; it does have one
mystical university, but Pylas is filled with lumber yards,
warehouses, and marketplaces selling a wide variety of
goods. The governor of Pylas Talaear, Syraen Melideth
(LN female elf, wizard 13), is a beautiful elf with a fullsized
skull tattooed on her face. Syraen took her post at the
start of the Last War, and over the last century has come to
view humans more sympathetically than most of her kind.
However, she is ruthless when it comes to maintaining
order within her city, and adventurers must watch their
step in Pylas Talaear.
The Undying- Court
ARGONNESSEN
Argonnessen, the land of the dragons, remains a mystery
to most of the rest of Eberron. Few have dared explore
the huge continent, and those who have set out to see the
great cities of the dragons have never returned to share
their tales. Even the Aerenal elves, who battled the dragons
in ages past, have never seen more than a glimpse of the
continent's interior.
Traders and explorers can sail the seas of the Dragonreach
toward Seren Island, if they have the will to face the
barbarian hordes that make the place their home. Using
longboats, the Seren barbarians patrol the Dragonreach
and sail to the long stretch of beach on Argonnessen's
northern shore, called Totem Beach, to pay homage to
the dragons they revere.
The dragons know that the Serens worship them, and
they play to the barbarians' fear and reverence in order to
use them as a buffer between Argonnessen and the rest
of the world. The dragons don't care what the Serens do
or what occurs along the beach; they don't appreciate or
welcome visitors who pass beyond the Great Barrier, however,
and the Serens are charged with making sure such
incursions rarely occur.
Great monoliths rise over Totem Beach, giant dragonheads
carved of stone that must have been quarried far
away and moved vast distances. No one believes that the
primitive humans that make up the Seren tribes carved
the monoliths, but no one quite believes that the dragons
did the work either. Beyond the beach, a dense jungle leads
to the Great Barrier.
The Serens live by raiding and pillaging, supplemented
by hunting, fishing, and gathering. They offer
sacrifices to their dragon gods, and some Seren warriors
take on dragon totems that they believe grant them great
powers. The Lhazaar princes often come into conflict
with the Seren raiders, but a few of the dragonmarked
houses have successfully traded with the Serens in the
past, and a few institutes of learning have attempted to
launch expeditions into Argonnessen from Seren or
Totem Beach, though only one professor (from Morgrave
University) has returned after negotiating with the
Seren chiefs.
FROSTFELL
North of Khorvaire, beyond the icy coldness of the Bitter
Sea, the barren Frostfell covers the top of the world. This
land of perpetual winter is locked in ice and snow. Sometimes,
when winter gets the upper hand, storms blow out
of the Frostfell and temporarily turn other regions into
semblances of this frozen waste. The dwarves believe they
originated in this frozen land, and legends of strange
monsters, unrestrained demons, and hordes of undead are
featured in tales of the Frostfell. The only known expedition
to reach the ice plains and snow-covered peaks and
return to tell the tale was led by Lord Boroman ir'Dayne
of the Wayfinder Foundation. More often, the Frostfell
sends bitterly cold winds, snowstorms, and great icebergs
to punish the southern lands.
KHYBER
The underdark of Eberron, Khyber stretches below the surface
to depths that few can imagine. Known as the Dragon
Below in some myths and revered by vile cultists across
Khorvaire, Khyber remains a dangerous, foreboding underworld
that only reluctantly gives up any of its dark secrets.
While Khyber exists beneath every continent, few
paths lead directly to its sinister depths. Across Khorvaire,
the most well known passages can be found in the Demon
Wastes, Droaam, and Q'barra, and rumors of other less
frequented (and perhaps less guarded) portals are whispered
of among the Cults of the Dragon Below.
Khyber dragonshards, with their properties of binding,
can only be harvested in the deep Underdark beneath
Eberron's surface. In addition to the various uses that
Khyber dragonshards fulfill for the arcane technicians of
the surface world, the great veins of living crystal bind the
ancient demons that once ruled and ravaged the planet.
Khyber dragonshards grow on cavern walls near layers of
magma. The crystals are easily recognized by the midnight
blue to oily black veins that writhe within them.
Many surface dwellers take great interest in Khyber.
The Lords of Dust, for example, seek to either free their
ancient demonic masters or find a way to draw power from
them. The various Cults of the Dragon Below, on the other
hand, venerate the many vile entities living on or trapped
beneath Eberron, and they often hatch plots to set them
upon the surface world. Then there are the profiteers, those
looking to exploit Khyber's abundant resources despite the
risks to life and limb.
The remaining daelkyr and their aberration creations
roam throughout Khyber. Occasionally, either by chance or
with the help of outside agents, these creatures make their
way to the surface world and wreak havoc until destroyed
or driven back to Khyber's inky depths. Within the caverns
and tunnels of the Underdark, however, these abominations
reign supreme.
Other deep-dwelling creatures inhabit the cavernous
pits of the Dragon Below, including goblinoids and magical
beasts, monstrous humanoids and renegade dragons,
corporeal undead, spirits, and more. The Underdark is an
alien realm of darkness and crushing rock, full of treasures
and secrets that some surface dwellers can't resistno
matter how dangerous attaining such riches might be.
SARLONA
Tens of thousands of years ago, the vast continent of Sarlona
was the cradle of human civilization. Three thousand
years ago, the first human colonists set forth from Sarlona,
setting in motion the events that would shape modern-day
Khorvaire. Over the past fifteen hundred years, Sarlona
has become an insular land of mystery. This change is
due to the influence of the Inspired, a powerful dynasty
of psychic overlords who serve as vessels for quori from
Dal Quor. The continent is devoid of either Eberron or
Siberys dragonshards.
Once Sarlona was home to over a dozen distinct kingdoms,
but today only two established nations remain: the
mighty empire of Riedra and the mountain sanctuary
of Adar.
220
Adar
Adar, a Riedran word that translates to "refuge," hides deep
in the southeast portion of the continent. Long before
the Inspired ever appeared on Sarlona, the mountains
of Adar were a place where the innocent could flee from
persecutionprovided that they could survive the perilous
climb to reach the fertile valleys hidden within. Ancient
legends speak of a clan of blue dragons that dwells within
the clouds clinging to the tallest peaks. These guardians
are supposed to protect the innocent and punish those who
would abuse the sacred sanctuary of the mountain, sending
bolts of lightning down from the clouds to slay transgressors.
If these dragons do indeed exist, they keep their
distance from the humanoid inhabitants of the mountain.
But it is easy to look up into the eternal storm clouds and
imagine catching a glimpse of a draconic shadow darting
through the air.
For thousands of years, Adar had a small population
of spiritual hermits and exiles from the lowland
kingdoms of Sarlona. Then the kalashtar came to Sarlona.
The Inspired came close on their heels, seeking
to finally eradicate these rebellious quori. As the power
of the Inspired spread across Sarlona, the kalashtar
were driven into hiding. Ultimately they fled into the
mountains, along with many others who had unsuccessfully
challenged the might of the Inspired. For over a
thousand years the Inspired have laid siege to the great
mountains. But the combination of Adar's natural fortifications,
deadly storms (of draconic origin or not), and
the psychic and martial discipline of its defenders have
held against all attacks.
Today, Adar is a place of mystery. While the Inspired
have never broken its defenses, the siege of the mountains
continues. Tales abound of golden temples and beautiful
hidden valleys, and of ancient kalashtar psions and libraries
of arcane lore forbidden by the Inspired, but finding a
path into the mountain sanctuary is the only way to confirm
the stories.
Adar has no contact with the outside world, and therefore
does not trade with any other nations. However, the
kalashtar preceptors of the Path of Light are among the
finest instructors of the psionic arts in Eberron. Adventurers
who wish to unlock the powers of the mind or sages
who wish to learn more about psychic secrets may brave the
many dangers of Sarlona to reach the hidden monasteries
of Adar.
Adar is only a nation in the loosest sense of the word.
A handful of monastic fortresses are scattered throughout
the mountain range. There is little contact between these
hidden temples; the monks and psions of each community
spend their days in contemplation and meditation, and
they have little reason to make contact with the others in
the mountain.
Each fortress is responsible for defending one of
the mountain passes against the forces of Riedra and the
Inspired. Nonthreatening visitors are tested to ensure
the purity of their intentions; after a few deceptively
simple questions, travelers either are turned away or made
welcome, offered food and shelter, and invited to join in
discussions with the students. Agents of the Inspired or
the Dreaming Dark are struck down without mercy; others
who come with impure intentions are denied shelter and
sent back into the harsh mountain passes.
There are eight monastic fortresses in Adar, each
carved directly into the mountain. There is rarely any
conflict between these fortresses. None of the other organizations
described in this book have gained any sort of
foothold in the distant mountains of Adar.
The Kalashtar: Adar is the one stronghold of the
kalashtar race and the Path of Light. It is the only place
that the kalashtar are safe from the quori and the Inspired.
But they are trapped in their sanctuary. They despise
the Inspired, but they do not have the power to counter
their enemies. They may provide advice and training to
those who take an active role in battling the forces of
darkness, and a few kalashtar have left the mountain
refuge to take up the battle. In general the kalashtar are
a passive force, hiding in the mountains and waiting for
the right opportunity.
The Keepers of the Word: Most of the inhabitants of
Adar follow the teachings of the kalashtar, but some follow
other paths. When the Inspired conquered Sarlona, they
purged society of all forms of arcane magic. The Keepers
of the Word are the descendants of the wizards and sorcerers
of ancient Sarlona, who have preserved the mystical
traditions of their ancestors for over a thousand years.
While they are concentrated in Kasshta Keep, they can
be found in all the fortresses of Adar. In this way, the
Keepers ensure that a single attack cannot destroy their
traditions. The Keepers of the Word respect the beliefs
and traditions of the Path of Light, but they are devoted to
arcane magic and spend their days continuing to develop
their magical skills.
Korrandar: In the center of Adar rises a single
massive mountain, the peak of which is always shrouded
in storm clouds. Korrandar is said to be the home of
the Storm Guardians, the blue dragons that protect the
mountain from those who would abuse its sanctuary. At
the peak of Korrandar, hidden from view beneath thick
clouds, is said to be an active volcano; some say that a powerful
rakshasa rajah is imprisoned within the mountain,
and that the draconic guardians were actually sent to guard
against the escape of this fiend.
Riedra
Three thousand years ago there were a dozen kingdoms in
Sarlona. Today there is only one: the empire of Riedra.
The change began some fifteen hundred years ago, when
the quori first came to Sarlona. Initially, the quori spirits
could not completely dominate their hosts. Instead, they
could only whisper into susceptible minds, fanning ambitions
and aggravating existing feuds. Within two centuries,
Sarlona had collapsed into chaos and war. By this point,
the quori had full control over a handful of hosts, enabling
them to produce the first of the Inspired. These psions
and psychic warriors stepped into the political void, using
their mental powers to systematically seize control from
the weakened warlords.
They proclaimed themselves to be souls inspired
by divine forces, sent to guide Sarlona to a new age of
221
prosperity and glory. All they required was absolute loyalty.
It took another two centuries of mental manipulation,
military conflict, and pure guile, but when the
battles finally ended, the Inspired held sway over all
of lowland Sarlona. They named this empire Riedra.
For the next thousand years, the Inspired consolidated
their power, strengthening their hold on the people
of Riedra. They purged the land of any traditions that
could be a threat to their powernotably any form of
magic, which could provide the people with a counter to
the natural psionic powers of the Inspiredand hunting
down the kalashtar, who had unwittingly shown the
quori the path to Eberron. Some of their enemies took
refuge in the mountains of Adar; others fled to Khorvaire,
settling in the kingdoms of the Five Nations or
establishing new colonies in the Shadow Marches or the
Demon Wastes.
For the past thousand years, the borders of Riedra have
been closed to foreigners. Even today, the Inspired have
no interest in allowing the people of other nations to spoil
their terrestrial paradise. But after centuries of scheming
and planning, the Inspired are finally beginning to turn
their attention to Khorvaire, and Riedran ambassadors
can be found in courts across the continent.
The Inspired hide their secrets well. Those who have
managed to breach the borders of Riedra speak of titanic
monoliths that lie within. The sages of the Twelve believe
that these monoliths enhance the psionic powers of the
Inspired, drawing on the mental energy of the populace
in order to supply their masters with vitality.
The Inspired have been studying ways to use Eberron
dragonshards. No Eberron or Siberys dragonshards can
be found in Sarlona, and what Khyber shards exist below
the surface are hard to come by.
The people of Riedra believe that the Inspired are
divine avatars, sent to guide and protect their nation. Most
are willing to die for their Inspired lords. Most communities
are agricultural villages, designed to be as self-sufficient
as possible. Inspired overseers manage the work force. A
vast fortress-metropolis at the center of each web of villages
is home to the bulk of the armed forces of the region and
the high-ranking Inspired nobles.
Riedra is a strictly feudal society. The humans serve
the Inspired, who in turn protect and care for their loyal
subjects (or so the theory goes). The Inspired, highly evolved
humans with a touch of elf and fiendish blood, have been
bred over the course of a thousand years to be perfect hosts
for quori spirits.
The Dreaming Dark: The members of this sinister
network serves as the eyes of Dal Quor, the Region of
Dreams. They are spies, saboteurs, and psychic assassins.
The Dreaming Dark receives its orders directly from the
quori on Dal Quor and has considerable authority among
the Inspired.
The Thousand Eyes: Where the Dreaming Dark
works to undermine other civilizations, the members of
the Thousand Eyes protect Riedra itself. They observe the
people of Riedra, seeking any sign of internal dissension
or outside infiltration. Any time a threat is identified, the
Eyes strike without warning or mercy.
The Inspired are the living deities of Riedra, and
the practice of any other religionespecially the Path of
Lightis punishable by death.
XEN'DRIK
It rises out of the mist to the south of Khorvaire,
beyond Shargon's Teeth and the Thunder Sea. Today,
Xen'drik is a continent of secrets and mystery, a wild
place full of promise and danger. In the distant past,
Xen'drik was home to a great civilization of giants, and
the remains of these kingdoms hide within the dense
jungles of the continent. Giants of all types still roam
the jungles and mountains of Xen'drik, but they are
primitive and disorganized compared to the society
of the distant past. The elves of Aerenal also trace
their origin to these mysterious shores, and the darkskinned
elves called drow still live among the ruins of
the giant civilization.
The sahuagin guard the seas leading to Xen'drik,
making the trip to the mysterious continent dangerous.
Some sahuagin tribes can't be reasoned with; they attack
any who attempt to pass through Shargon's Teeth to reach
the jungles of Xen'drik. Other tribes, however, make a
living by selling their services as guides and leading ships
through the hard-to-navigate waterway. Working through
malenti intermediaries, these friendlier sahuagin regularly
trade with and assist explorers and merchants from
Khorvaire, and many people in Sharn have standing deals
with these tribes.
In many ways, Xen'drik is a lost continent. It's a huge
place, and only a fraction of it has been explored. Ancient
ruins, dungeons, tombs, and treasure vaults abound, and
monsters of all types roam the land or lair in these sites.
Explorers from Khorvaire have mapped portions of
the coastline, but much of the interior of the continent
remains a mystery.
Cyclopean ruins have been found in the deep jungle,
the remnants of a bygone civilization of giants that came
to an end quickly and violently. Primitive clans of giants,
regressed socially and technologically, still inhabit many
of the enormous ruins. Some of the ruins have been overrun
by monsters, and still others serve as home to organized
tribes of drow who have the most advanced society
on the continent.
The Ring of Siberys circles the world high above
Xen'drik, and when Siberys dragonshards fall to the
ground, they land on the mysterious continent. Thus,
Xen'drik is the only source of Siberys dragonshards. (Some
believe Argonnessen may also contain Siberys dragonshards,
but the dragons won't let anyone in to check.)
A trade city sits at the tip of Xen'drik's northern peninsula.
Galled Stormreach, it was built as a pirate hideout
but now serves as the first stop for expeditions to the continent
of secrets. All the dragonmarked houses have agents
in Stormreach, and many have outposts and emporiums as
well. Some of the giant tribes living in the area trade with
the city, but the farther one travels into the interior of the
continent, the more inhospitable the denizens become.