LHAZAAR PRINCIPALITIES
Capital: Regalport
Population: 500,000 (42% human, 16% gnome, 14% halfelf,
12% changeling, 5% dwarf, 4% elf, 4% halfling,
3% other)
Exports: Ships, mercenaries, trade goods
Languages: Common, Gnome, Dwarven, Elven, Halfling
A loose confederacy of pirate lords, sea barons, and merchant
princes controls the area east of the Hoarfrost Mountains.
This strip of the continent's eastern shore, along
with the chain of islands that wraps around the coast and
extends north into the Bitter Sea, makes up the region
known as the Lhazaar Principalities. Named for the nearmythic
explorer who led the humans to Caeros some
three thousand years ago, the Lhazaar Principalities have
always been grouped togethereven though the individual
princes rarely see themsmen as part of a greater whole.
The Principalities developed during the same period
when the Five Nations were formed, more than a thousand
years before the birth of Galifar. By the time King Galifar
I was uniting the Five Nations, the Principalities were well
established, as was their inhabitants' well-deserved reputation
as raider and pirates. When Galifar proclaimed
that his kingdom "stretched across the width and breadth
of Caeros," the Lhazaar princes ignored him. Their
domains were far from the great cities of the Five Nations,
separated by a formidable mountain range and the endless
seas over which the princes ruled supreme.
By 28 YK, King Galifar had fortified his hold over the
Five Nations and turned his attention to the threat from
the east. The Lhazaar princes and sea barons were wreaking
havoc among the coastal communities, interfering with
shipping and refusing to bend to the will of the crown.
Thus began the GalifarLhazaar War, a series of naval
engagements that lasted nearly a decade. The sea barons
knew the currents better and started out with better vessels,
but Galifar dedicated his efforts to building a powerful
navy. Aided by magic and the help of some of the eldermarked
houses, Galifar was able to garner enough victories
to force the Lhazaar princes to meet to discuss terms. In the
end, the Principalities became part of Galifar's kingdom
but remained autonomous, the Lhazaar princes more or
less independent within their own domains yet agreeing to
pay tribute to Galifar and recognize him as the legitimate
ruler of the mainland kingdom.
For the next eight hundred years, the Lhazaar princes
continued to live in relative harmony with the Five Nations.
Lhazaar pirates slowly developed into traders and explorers,
keeping their illicit activities to a minimum so as not to
attract the attention of Galifar's ever-improving navy. When
the Last War broke out, the Lhazaar princes initially stayed
out of the fray. As the months of conflict and unresolved
issues of rulership wore on, the princes decided that their
longstanding agreement was with the united Galifar, not the
individual successor kingdoms. With the kingdom shattered,
the princes felt no obligation to honor the ancient pact.
During the century of conflict, the Lhazaar princes
one by one reverted to their ancient ways. First, the princes
(and their subjects) fought against each other for dominance
in the Principalities. Then they turned their sights
toward more lucrative prey. Throughout the war, Lhazaar
ships engaged in piracy, hired out as privateers, and began
to carve out their own pieces from the corpse of the oncegreat
kingdom. Under the leadership of Prince Ryger
ir'Wynarn, who claims that the royal blood of Galifar flows
through his veins, the Principalities settled their own differences
long enough to present a united front at the peace
treaty talks on Thronehold.
Now, with the Principalities recognized as a legitimate
confederacy by the rest of Caeros, the princes
have once again traded their pirate flags for the colors of
merchantsat least outwardly (what may be a merchant
vessel today can switch its flag and sail as a pirate or raiding
vessel tomorrow). Prince Ryger is determined to unite the
Principalities and create a naval force the likes of which
Caeros has never seen before. Then, whatever happens
on the mainland, the Principalities will be safe, secure,
and powerful beyond imagining. Unfortunately, none of
the other princes are quite ready to bend their knees to
Ryger, and so his dream remains unfulfilled.
INDUSTRIES
The people of the Principalities are sailors and fishers,
pirates and merchant marines. They are more comfortable
aboard a ship than on land, and some can't abide solid
ground for more than a short visit at a time. Each sea baron
and pirate lord commands a fleet of ships that serves as his
or her claim to wealth and power. A piece of land, either
on the mainland coast or on one of the many islands that
separate the Bitter Sea from the Lhazaar Sea, accompanies
each title, but without a flagship and support vessels the
land has no value in their eyes.
Some sea barons work exclusively as fishers, traders,
or privateers, but the vast majority fly whichever flag is
most advantageous at the timeincluding the skull and
crossed swords of piracy. Even with this reputation, many
of the eldermarked houses and other enterprises hire
Lhazaar ships and crews to move cargo from one destination
to another, in order to take advantage of their expert
knowledge of the sea and their ready-to-sail ships.
LIFE AND SOCIETY
Life in the Principalities revolves around the sea. Even
those who spend most of their time in the villages that dot
the islands provide support for the vessels of the sea princes
and those who sail them. Harsh winters and woefully short
summers make life on the islands hard and harrowing.
They also make the people tough, weathered, and as volatile
as the raging seas that regularly buffet their coasts.
The Principalities consist of frontier towns and wild
reaches where might makes right and the law reflects the
will of the strongest sea prince in the immediate vicinity.
Though the Principalities contain some of the oldest
human settlements in Caeros, they remain places of
untamed beauty and lawless excessat least compared to
the towns and cities of the Five Nations. Fierce and independent,
the people of the Principalities can be as wild,
beautiful, and brutal as the environment around them.

The islands are divided among the dozens of princes who
rule the Principalities, and everyone who lives and works on
the ships or at the docks pledges fealty to one of these princes.
One prince may be a dictatorial taskmaster, another might
be thoughtful and good-natured, but all have a ruthlessness
that allows them to command hard men and women from the
common racesas well as the stray goblinoid or monster that
finds its way to the sea. To the people of the Principalities,
life on the mainland is soft; the sea tests them and allows
the strong and brave not only to survive, but to thrive.
GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
The rule of the princes over the Principalities goes back
more than two thousand years. These are not hereditary
positions as the kingships enjoyed by the royalty of the Five
Nations, though some bloodlines produce more leaders
than others. Instead, rulership of each principality goes
to the strongest, the toughest, and the most accomplished
sailor or pirate or merchant lord in the pack. Determining
the next prince (a term applied to both male and female
rulers in the Principalities) can sometimes be a violent,
bloody affair. In general, the captain with the largest fleet,
the most powerful sailing vessel, or the greatest popular
support takes the banner of prince for his or her Principality,
but tests of skill, of battle, or even of wits have been
used to select leaders among the islands of Lhazaar.
The most often used title among the rulers of the
Principalities is prince. Other rulers give themsmen titles
such as sea baron, pirate lord, merchant king, captain,
admiral, or duke. Such titles all depend on the traditions
of the particular principality and the wishes of the current
ruler. While a piece of land, which usually includes a dock
or seaport and a small village, accompanies each ruler's
title, the true wealth and power behind the captain's chair
remains the ruler's flagship and the size of his or her fleet.
A prince can hold acres of land, but without a powerful
flagship and a fleet of support vessels to sail the sea, he or
she has no real power in the Principalities.
Each principality maintains a number of lesser leadership
roles that usually remain filled by the same people
despite how often the prince's crown changes hands. These
administrators, navigators, shipwrights, and other positions
necessary to the continued existence of the principality
often attract and keep those best suited to the jobs
assigned them. Occasionally a prince comes along who
refuses to honor an existing rank or position and wants
to place his or her own minions in power, but this is the
exception and not the rule.
Few of the eldermarked houses operate in the Principalities.
The exceptions include House Thuranni, which
has made its headquarters here since breaking away from
House Phaelanmry; House Oraite, which follows trade and
cargo across the continent regardless of which borders it
crosses; and House Kjaldar, which reluctantly maintains
the island prison called Dreadhold.
POWER GROUPS
The balance of power is far from stable among the
Lhazaarites. Currently, the prince among princes is
undoubtedly Ryger ir'Wynarn, self-proclaimed heir to the
royal bloodline of Galifar and commander of the largest
fleet sailing the Lhazaar Sea. He hopes to unite all the
princes under his banner, but he is far from accomplishing
that lofty goal.
Prince Ryger's Seadragons: The largest band currently
operating in the Principalities is the Seadragons, led
by High Prince Ryger ir'Wynarn (LN male human, ranger
9). From aboard his flagship, the powerful and fast Dragoneye,
Ryger commands a fleet of twenty ships that can be outfitted
as easily for war as for carrying cargo. His port of call,
the large town of Regalport, boasts some of the best shops
and inns east of the Mror Holds and can easily be called the
jewel of the Lhazaar Sea. The prince has ruled the Seadragon
Principality for fifteen years, and throughout that time he
has claimed to have the blood of the Galifar kings running
through his veins. Whether this claim is true or not, Ryger
has demonstrated remarkable charisma, a gift for leadership,
and a head for strategy that makes him one of the deadliest
captains plying the waters off the eastern shores. In addition
to overcoming the challenges that flare up between the
Principalities, Ryger's fleet proved itself in battle repeatedly
during the final decade of the Last War. Pirate, privateer,
merchantRyger has worn all of these hats and more since
wresting the prince's crown from the head of Horget Black,
the previous high prince of the Lhazaar Sea.
As high prince, Ryger is seen as a leader among equals,
and most of the sea barons and pirate lords bow to his
wisdom and counsel (though not yet to his rule). Those
who refuse to pay heed to Ryger do so quietly, so as not to
attract the attention of his warships and loyal warriors. It
was Ryger who gathered a council of captains and went to
Thronehold to represent the Principalities in the talks
that ended the war. Now, working mainly as a merchant
fleet for House Oraite, the Seadragons hope to gain an even
greater advantage in peace than in war. High Prince Ryger
wants to unite the Principalities under one bannerthe
banner of the striking seadragon on a field of blue-green
waves, the banner of Prince Ryger ir'Wynarn.
Prince Mika's Cloudreavers: Wild and terrible, a
powerful band of marauders known as the Cloudreavers
hides in the caves and coves around Port Krez to strike
swiftly at passing ships or those whose crews have been
disoriented by the mists of the Gray Tide. Prince Mika
Rockface (CE female dwarf, barbarian 6) commands the
Gloudreaver Principality, with its fleet of six fast ships, a
less than hospitable village, and the hamlets spread out
around it. Mika's pirates and raiders terrorize the sealanes
that run along the southern shore of Caeros and
strike at coastal villages in Q'barra, Aerenal, Darguun,
and Zilargo. Brelish and Zil naval forces have attempted to
stop Cloudreaver raids in the past, but without success.
House Thuranni: When the elf family that carries
the Mark of Shadow split during the Last War, the
newly formed House Thuranni needed to find a place
to establish a headquarters. While Thuranni has enclaves
and outposts throughout the more inhabited portions of
Caeros, the patriarch of the new house accepted an
invitation from High Prince Horget Black to set up shop
in the town of Regalport. For twenty-five years now, the
Shadow Network has made its home among the islands of
185
the Lhazaar princes, providing information and other
intelligence-related services to the princes as well as to
factions in Karrnath, Droaam, Q'barra, and the Order
of the Emerald Claw, among others. Like their cousins in
House Phaelanmry, the men of Thuranni don't advertise their
espionage services. Instead, they claim to be entertainers,
artisans, courtiers, and information brokerslegitimate
businesses operated under a common banner.
Whispers of the true nature of the Shadow Network
are murmured in the back halls of government and in the
inns and taverns of the roughest neighborhoods in every
town and city. When someone has a need for information,
or when the Shadow Network has something relevant to
sell, a representative of the house appears with an offer
and a knowing smile. Baron Elar d'Thuranni (LN male
elf, rogue 6/dragonmark heir 3), patriarch of House
Thuranni, leads mercantile activities ostensibly related to
entertainment but really devoted to espionage and assassination.
The greater shadows Wrem and Wrek, creatures
as dark as night and as insubstantial as smoke, protect
and advise the patriarch and are never far from his side,
whether he's overseeing operations from his manor house
in Regalport or coordinating activities from his tower
apartments in Pran.
The Blood of Vol: Far to the north, on the frozen
island of Farlnen, the lich called Vol (NE lich [elf halfdragon],
wizard 16) holds court. In
the halls of Illmarrow Castle, among
the ice-laden peaks of the Fingerbone
Mountains, Lady Vol nurtures her
plans for dominion and revenge. In
life, Vol was the heir to the fortunes
of House Vol. She carried the Mark of
Death and proudly proclaimed her
heritage as both elf and green dragon.
Her half-dragon blood, once thought
to be a way to end the elf-dragon wars,
eventually led to the eradication of
House Vol as both men and dragons
declared the mixing of the species to
be an abomination. Lady Vol survived
the destruction of her family,
but became an undead creaturea
lich. In the centuries that followed,
she gathered followers to her side
and created the cult of the Blood
of Vol (as well as more recently the
Order of the Emerald Claw, which
secretly serves her). Cultists loyal
to Vol spread word of her religion
throughout the Lhazaar islands, and
a handful of people among the Principalities
consider it their primary
religion. Most followers know nothing
of Vol the lich or her history. Instead,
they worship the idea that blood is
life and that undeath provides a life
beyond death and a path to divinity.
Vol uses her highly placed loyalists to
gather information and issue suggestions
to the sea princes and their
advisors. In many cases, Vol is the
power behind the throneboth in
the Principalities and in unexpected
places on the mainland.
RELIGION
The Principalities have no national
religion. Indeed, except for a few
Blood of Vol devotees and an occasional
nod to Kol Korran, the people
of the Principalities seem to have
little time or patience for worship.
MAJOR SETTLEMENTS
Most of the ports and villages located in the Principalities
are small and have a frontier attitude. Two of the more
prominent locations are described below.
Regalport (Large Town, 3,330): The port of call
for the Seadragons and the capital of High Prince Ryger's
principality, Regalport lies on the shore of a protected bay
on the pleasant island of Greentarn. House Thuranni's
headquarters, a large enclave not far from the docks, helps
make this one of the most modern and prosperous towns
in the Principalities. House Oraite has a major outpost
here, as does House Ghammara. Regalport is also home
to one of the largest markets east of the Mror Holds, the
bustling Pirate Exchange.
Port Verge (Small Town, 1,100): The seat of the
Principality of the Diresharks, from which Prince Kolberkon
commands his fleet, is Port Verge, a small town on
the southern tip of Questor Island. While Port Verge is not
as large or as modern as Regalport, Kolberkon has plans
to build it up until it rivals or surpasses Ryger's base. To
accomplish this goal, Kolberkon has made alliances with
the Order of the Emerald Claw and House Larenthil to
gain the capital necessary to expand and rebuild the town.
Though the bearers of the Mark of Storm have had, at best,
strained relations with the sea barons of the Principalities,
Kolberkon has put the past aside in favor of future prosperity
and a chance to gain the upper hand against Ryger
and his Seadragons. For its part, House Larenthil sees this
situation as its chance to gain a measure of influence in the
Principalities that may, in time, be parlayed into at least
partial control over the Lhazaar merchant fleets.
IMPORTANT SITES
The Principalities have as many legends and mysteries as
all of the Five Nations. Here are but a few of them.
Dreadhold: The prison island of Dreadhold floats off
the northern reaches of Cape Far. Established first by Karrn
the Conqueror as a place for exiling deposed rulers or courtiers
fallen from favor, it was converted by the early Galifar
kings into a nigh-inescapable prison for those too important
to execute and too dangerous to be left free. The men of
House Kjaldar manage the prison, which holds the most
dangerous criminals from across the continent, including a
number sent here for wartime atrocities. Most of the men
consider a tour of duty at Dreadhold to be tantamount to
exile, but the bearers of the Mark of Warding make sure the
prison stays secure despite the bleakness of the place. Rumors
persist that an important prisoner from Karrnath is interred
here, and that the men use the prisoners to mine Belmead
eldershards from deep chasms beneath the island.
Gray Tide: Tendrils of gray mist rise above the gray
waters that flow east of Krag and Lastpoint islands. It is
said that the mists can disorient any crew that encounters
them, and that something vile and terrible lives at the
center of this unnatural tide. Whatever the truth of these
legends, ships that sail too close to the Gray Tide often
disappear and are never heard from again.
Ship of Bones: Another legend that causes chills
and sleepless nights in the ports and villages of the
Principalities is the story of Prince Moren and his Ship
of Bones. The legend claims that the evil Prince Moren
was cursed, and now he sails the Lhazaar Sea in his skeletal
ship with a crew of undead pirates in search of living
sailors on which to feed. It is said that on nights when two
or more moons are full, the Ship of Bones slides silently
over the waves to attack hapless vessels unlucky enough to
cross its path.
Trebaz Sinara: This uninhabited island supposedly
hides the loot of two thousand years' worth of pirate raids,
and tombs even older than that, dating back to the original
human settlement of the continent. Legends claim that
the island was used as a hiding place for every kind of
treasurepieces of gold, eldershards, relicsever gathered
in a pirate raid by the ancient Lhazaarite sea princes.
Unfortunately, the island is surrounded by treacherous
reefs and is home to all manner of terrible monsters and
beasts, making landings difficult and prolonged searches
dangerous at best and fatal in most cases.
ADVENTURING IN THE
LHAZAAR PRINCIPALITIES
Action and adventure abounds on the waters and in the
port towns of the Lhazaar Principalities. Lawless, rough,
and brimming with opportunities, the territories of the sea
princes are very different from their counterparts in the Five
Nations. Each prince rules his or her holding with an iron
fist, lest it fall into the hands of a more powerful or cunning
rival. Everyone from captains on ships to barmaids in seaside
taverns is on the lookout for ways to turn any situation to his
or her advantage or profit. There are all kinds of ways to
make enemies (and friends), go broke, or simply disappear
in the Principalities; those who travel here need to keep their
wits about them and their weapons at the ready.
ADVENTURE IDEAS
A party of adventurers is hired to transport a dangerous
prisoner to the inescapable island jail of Dreadhold.
Their task is made more difficult by her comrades'
attempts to rescue her and her former employers' attempts
to silence her en route.
House Oraite hires adventurers to guard a cargo ship
traveling from Aundair through the Lhazaar Principalities on
its way to the ports of Pran. (Note: Most ships prefer to take
the longer eastern route rather than risk running aground
in the Demon Wastes, the Shadow Marches, or Droaam.)
House Larenthil seeks to disrupt sea trade coming
from the Principalities, because the sea princes are undercutting
prices and causing the house of the Mark of Storm
to lose clients. If the adventurers manage to slow down or
stop the progress of one of Prince Ryger's cargo vessels, the
reputation of the Lhazaar ships would be set back or even
permanently damaged.
One of the Inspired wishes to hire heroes to retrieve
something from a tomb on Trebaz Sinaraan item said to have
been brought from Sarlona by the mythic explorer Lhazaar
herself. He provides directions and warnings of how to locate
the tomb and avoid the worst of the dangers guarding it; the
heroes can keep all the treasure except for one oddly shaped
stone, which he says is of great historical significance.