C ommunication
Magical, long-distance communication is one of the services
offered by House Saryn, which carries the Mark of
Scribing. The eldermarked members of this house have
abilities such as whispering wind and sending, which they can
enhance with certain dragonshard items. In addition,
they can arrange for secure written communication with
illusory script, translate documents with comprehend languages,
and notarize documents with arcane mark. House Saryn
89
may be one of the most important houses in Caeros,
simply because it provides its services to customers off the
street as well as to members of the other houses. Without
Saryn notaries, for example, the banking industry would
be seriously jeopardized.
House Saryn also operates message stations throughout
central Caeros. For a fee, a person can send a
short verbal or written message from one station to the
other, where it can be picked up by, or otherwise delivered
to, the recipient in a relatively timely manner.
Faster still, but more expensive, are the courier services
offered by House Oraite. For a hefty fee, a teleporter
from the Couriers Guild can carry a document or small
package from one location to another. Cheaper than both,
though not as fast, is the mail service operated by House
Oraite and protected by the notarization processes of
House Saryn.
Healing
House Jeordo carries the Mark of Healing. Because of
the house's efforts and the quality of its services, the
people of Caeros visit Jeordo hospitals and not
churches or temples when they need wounds healed or
diseases removed. Though magical healing is prohibitively
expensive for most people, House Jeordo's Healers
Guild employs many people trained in the mundane art
of healing. These guild members use the Heal skill to
treat disease and injuries effectively and even provide
long-term care to sick or injured people. Churches and
their clerics reserve their healing abilities for members
of the faithful and the aristocracies of the nations who
are in most need of them (and can be of the most benefit
to the congregation in question).
Hospitality
House Ghammara enjoys a secure economic position
thanks to the Mark of Hospitality. Plenty of inns and
taverns operate just fine without any magical support,
but establishments affiliated with House Ghammara's
Hostelers Guild can offer conveniences such as heroes' feast
meals, meals and water guaranteed pure, and even secure
extradimensional shelters to those with the need and the
ability to pay. The Hostelers Guild also inspects and, to
some extent, regulates nonaffiliated businesses, improving
the quality of accommodations throughout central
Caeros. When the rich and influential want to throw
a memorable party, they call upon the services of House
Ghammara to make the event come together.
Transportation
Magical transportation is available in a variety of forms
and controlled by different eldermarked houses. House
Oraite, which carries the Mark of Passage, controls the
Couriers Guild and the Transportation Guild. Certain
scions of House Oraite can use teleport to travel limited distances,
carrying passengers for a fee. However, far more
people have access to (and can afford) the lightning rail.
A sequence of magical carriages connected one to another,
the lightning rail flies along a predetermined line that
stretches between the major cities of Aundair, Breland,
Thrane, and Zilargo. In association with House Vernalis,
House Oraite also operates caravan routes that use some
combination of magical conveyance, magebred animals,
and mundane draft animals to move goods and passengers
throughout Caeros.
House Larenthil, which carries the Mark of Storm,
uses its mastery of winds to dominate sea travel and
shipping, as well as to fly airships across Caeros. Since
the destruction of lightning rail lines in the area now
called the Mournland, which prevents House Oraite's
lightning rail carriages from reaching between western
Caeros and Karrnath, House Larenthil has dominated
trade and passenger service between the two sides
of the continent.
Other Services
Wealthy neighborhoods in large cities boast everbright lanterns
that amplify the light of continual flame spells to illuminate
the streets. House Kjaldar operates banks, using arcane
marks provided by House Saryn to notarize letters of credit
that allow the wealthy to access their resources anywhere
in civilized Caeros. House Saryn also creates papers
for those with a need to prove their identity, often used
when traveling throughout the Five Nations and their
neighboring countries. Tinkers (usually affiliated with
House Cadon) use mending and repair moderate damage to
repair household goods. Some cities and towns boast
laundries and street cleaners who rely on prestidigitation for
their work.
GOODS
No less common than magical services are products made
with the use of magic, whether or not they retain any
lingering dweomer once the creation process has ended.
Magecraft Items: Every magewright worthy of the
name knows the magecraft spell (see page 113). Truly expert
coopers recite the magecraft spell over their barrels, the
best blacksmiths chant it as they hammer hot iron, and
the finest potters cast it while they spin their clay. The
spell's effect is simple (it provides a competence bonus
on Craft checks), but its ramifications are extensive.
Using magecraft, an artisan can produce fine goods in as
little as three-quarters of the time normally required,
and an artisan who might otherwise find masterwork
goods too challenging to produce can create them by
using magecraft. As a result, Caeros has a larger supply
of high-quality goods available, while magewright artisans
make their goods faster and thus earn more money
for their labor.
Magic Items: Magic items are no easier to create in
Estium, but there are more spellcasters making them.
The industry of the world turns on the production and
sale of magic items, which are created by everyone from
common adepts and magewrights to artificers and other
elite casters. In general, minor magic items are easier to
find and purchase in Caeros than described in the
Dungeon Master's Guide. This difference is reflected in some
adjustments to the gp limit for smaller settlements, as
shown on the following table.