THE DREAMING DARK
The Dreaming Dark, a secret order of psionic spies and
assassins, serves as the eyes and hands of the quori in Dal
Quor, the Region of Dreams. While it generally seems to
be allied with the Inspired lords of Riedra, the goals of
the Dreaming Dark are subtle and mysteriousand always
deadly. This lawful evil organization makes its headquarters
in the city of Dar Jin, in Riedra. Its secret symbol is
an eye partially concealed under a wing. When used as a
badge of office, the style of the eye indicates the position
of the bearer in the organization's heirarchy.
For a thousand years Riedra has been an insular
land of mystery. The Inspired wear secrecy like a shroud,
and foreigners are not allowed into the lands of the
empire. For much of the history of Riedra, there was no
contact between the Inspired and the other inhabitants
of Eberron, but in recent decades this wall has been
lowered; foreigners are not allowed on Riedran soil, but
Inspired ambassadors can be found in most of the courts
of Khorvaire.
Even so, the Inspired have long maintained a network
of spies stretching across Eberron. For centuries
the Dreaming Dark has simply watched the world from
the shadows while the Inspired built their power within
Riedra. Now the quori are ready to act, and the Dreaming
Dark serves as their hands.
Should he ever be confronted with the actions of
the Dreaming Dark, a Riedran ambassador would deny
that his nation had anything to do with the organization.
This assertion is true. The Dreaming Dark is a
separate organization whose leaders dwell in Dal Quor
itself. The Dreaming Dark provides information to the
Riedran court, but the rulers of Riedra have no authority
over the agents of the Dark; in fact, an agent usually
holds a higher place in the hierarchy of Dal Quor than
a Riedran governor.
The agents of the Dreaming Dark are Inspired,
human vessels that now hold quori spirits. Some agents
use disguises to blend in with the local population;
others pose as kalashtar. With a variety of insidious
psionic disciplines at their disposal, they can observe
and gather information, and over the centuries they have
built fifth columns within some nations. As a result, the
Dreaming Dark has influence over criminal organizations,
trade guilds, and academic institutions. It has
agents in dragonmarked houses and royal courts across
the world.
The Circle of Night, made up of the most powerful
psions among the Inspired, coordinates agent activities.
The leader of the Circle, known as the Devourer of Dreams
(or the Dreamer), serves a still greater powerthe spirits of
the quori, located in the heart of Dal Quor. The Devourer
of Dreams can commune with the spirits on Dal Quor
without being absorbed and destroyed.
Physically, the agents of the Dreaming Dark are scattered
across Eberron. However, when one of the Inspired
sleeps, its spirit returns to its body in Dal Quor. The
Dreaming Dark is a secret order that does not bargain with
other organizations. Its greatest enemies are the kalashtar
of Adar and the priests of the Path of Light.