one can do, four can do better. No single adventurer possesses
all of the skills and abilities necessary to succeed; the
team provides the capabilities and companionship required
to get the job done. Groups come together through chance
meetings, fortuitous circumstances, open calls, and guild
connections. They stay together if they work well as a team
and learn to trust each other.
While many adventuring parties operate as freelancers
who take up each quest as it comes their way, some acquire
patrons who pay their expenses and provide the missions that
drive them. Now, any adventuring party can hire itself out
for a mission or two. A patron, however, often defines the
party's motivation and reason for sticking together. A patron
can be a wealthy noble or merchant lord, an organization, or
a government. Patrons command allegiance based on gold,
an exchange of services, or a common goal. A dragonmarked
house, a church, a university, the Brelish crown, and the Korranberg
Chronicle are all examples of adventuring party patrons.
Whatever the case, the common folk love to read about
or hear stories and ballads concerning champions of good
and agents of evil. The Korranberg Chronicle, in particular,
presents stories that follow adventurers from the towers of
Sharn to the mysterious jungles of Xen'drik and back again
on a regular basis.
LANGUAGE
Due to the widespread influence of the dragonmarked
houses across Khorvaire, Common developed into the language
of the land. Commerce and diplomacy use Common
to communicate on a level basis. It is prevalent and as universal
as any language could be across the continent.
Common is the primary language of the Five Nations.
It is a necessary second language in the Mror Holds and
Zilargo, and used extensively even in the Talenta Plains.
Other prominent languages on the continent include
Dwarven, Gnome, Elven, Halfling, Goblin, and Orc.
Scholars and arcanists also study Draconic, the ancient
language of dragons and magic.
In Aerenal, the Elven language dominates the land,
though Common is retained for trade and diplomatic
purposes. The Inspired of Sarlona speak Quori, while
the lesser classes speak Riedran, which combines Old
Common with a scattering of Quori words and phrases.
The barbarian tribes of Seren and Argonnessen speak a
mutated form of Common called Argon, while the dragons
speak Draconic and have at least a passing familiarity with
the languages of the lesser races.