Pandemonium reigned in the inn at First Tower, while outside a terrible
rainstorm raged on. Patrons dove beneath tables or fled to the sides of the
room as a halfling barbarian charged into a group of weapon-brandishing
goblins. The goblins, along with a couple ofkobolds and a hobgoblin, were
shouting slogans from the Last War and proclaiming victory for the monster
nation ofDarguun. A kalashtar, one of those exotic humans from across
the sea, had joined in the fight and was doing his best to keep the hobgoblin
away from the barbarian.
Ural, one of the lesser sons of House Orien, happened to be on
his way to Sharn on family business when all this occurred. He also
happened to be a sorcerer, and he had an annoying bent for honor and
fair play that his father said was going to either bankrupt the family or
get his son killed. Ural sighed, mentally apologized to his father, and
sent two magic missiles into the large hobgoblin's chest. Then, with the
kalashtar back on top in his battle, Ural turned to check on the halfling
barbarian. Three of the goblins were down, and he was still struggling
with the remaining two.
The kobolds interested Ural. Instead of joining the battle, the
two of them moved toward the wall beneath the staircase that led to
the inn's upper levels. "Well, look at that," Ural said to no one in
particular. "The kobolds have found a secret door. Now where dojou
suppose that goes?"
Another pair of magic missiles took down the remaining goblin, and
then Ural winked at the halfling. "Ifyou still feel like fighting, follow me,"
the sorcerer told the barbarian as he boldly ran toward the now-open
secret door.
Ural d'Orien, a 4th-level sorcerer, is the seventh son of
the patriarch of House Orien, one of the great mercantile
families of Khorvaire. In addition to performing duties
for the family, Ural uses his sorcerer skills to feed his love
for action and adventure.
He recently hooked up with a halfling barbarian, a
half-elf cleric, and a kalashtar psion. Their makeshift
adventuring party has foiled a hijacking attempt on a
money carriage, defeated an Order of the Emerald Claw
cell, and rescued a Mror Holds noble from pirates operating
along the Dagger River.
Always flamboyant and somewhat aristocratic, Ural
also has a mystical side. His abilities as a sorcerer have led
him to search for meaning in the draconic Prophecy. He
feels that by working and traveling with other adventurers,
he has a better chance to learn more about the source of
his arcane skills.