The huge bugbear enforcer leaned close, and Corrash struggled not to gag
at the monster's fetid breath. "Where arejour threats now, tiny one?"
the bugbear sneered. "Where arejour boasts and war cries?"
The halfling barbarian tested the ropes bindinghim to the pillar, but
they were strong and tight around his chest and arms. The bugbear drew
a wicked dagger from his belt. "You should never have interfered with the
Bandit Lord's business," the bugbear said, making a narrow cut across
Corrash's forehead.
"And you should have thought to account for my companion
beast," Corrash smiled, ignoring the blood dripping down his face.
33
T/ie halfling made a sound that was part growl, part whistle, and a
high-pitched roar erupted from the shadows behind the bugbear to
answer him in return.
"A dinosaur?" the bugbear asked with a fearful gulp.
"My dinosaur," Corrash replied, as the rending and tearing began.
An accomplished dinosaur rider from the Talenta Plains,
Corrash the 4th-level halfling barbarian adventurer
has brought his "uncivilized" ways to the very center of
Khorvaire society. After his father dishonored himself by
fleeing from a battle against Karrnathi troops during the
Last War, Corrash left the Talenta Plains to prove himself
to the rest of his clan. He has taken up a life of adventuring
with a group of other outcastsa half-elf cleric, a human
sorcerer, and a kalashtar psionand currently operates
within Sharn.
Corrash and his band often wind up taking jobs or
pursuing quests that are over their heads. Though they
have had success in these areas, they have also suffered
setbacks and injuries along the way. The halfling hopes
to someday find a patron for his band, someone to fund
their exploits so they can spend more time adventuring
and less time seeking the resources they need to keep
them on the job.
Corrash maintains a connection to his homeland
through the clothes he wears and the weapons he wields,
but his most beloved memory of the windswept plains is
his companion beast, the fastieth dinosaur Razoreye.
The fastieth is sometimes the object of vile looks in
the City of Towers, but Corrash wouldn't have it any
other way.
The more time Corrash spends away from the Talenta
Plains, the less he wants to go back. He enjoys the comforts
and opportunities available in Sharnespecially the
chance to swing his battleaxe in glorious combat.