Baristi the wizard entered the library and waited for the gnome clerk to
approach her. She had come to research an ancient legend and seek a new
spell to aid her in her quest.
The clerk made her wait for a few moments before he shuffled
over to her. "You have an appointment, shifter?" the gnome asked,
knowing full well that she did. She had been here before, and she was
sure that he recognized her as much as she recognized him from her
previous visits.
Baristi controlled her temper and handed the clerk her appointment
scroll. He studied it closely, checking the authenticity of the arcane
mark, before handing it back to her. "The legend of Kronik, the lost
goblin temple," the gnome said as he turned toward one of the ornate
doors that ringed the vestibule. "Of course. A study hall has been prepared
for jour use."
She followed him through a pair of doors and into a small chamber
that contained a desk, a chair, a worktable, and a narrow pedestal. A
stack of parchment was piled atop the table, along with quills, ink, and
sealing wax. As they reached the middle of the room, the clerk placed an
orange crystal atop the pedestal, and Baristi had the sudden sensation of
movement. The walls fell away and alcoves rushed toward them, formed
of shmen upon shmen of dusty tomes and scroll cases.
The dizzying activity lasted for a few long seconds as the shelving units
rearranged themsmen and jockeyed for position, and then the room additions
clicked into place. The study hall, designed specifically for Baristi and
the research she wished to accomplish, was complete.
u
Just remove the crystal whenjou have finished for the day, and the
study hall will returnyou to the vestibule," the gnome explained. With that,
the clerk stepped into one of the corridors of shmen and disappeared.
"I hate when they do that," Baristi grumbled as she cast the fox's cunning
spell on herself and magically enhanced her intelligence. "Now, to find
out everything I can about a temple that was probably in ruins before King
Galifar united the Five Nations. . . ."
The shifter Baristi is a 6th-level wizard with a love of
knowledge and a thirst for information. She grew up in
the Eldeen Reaches and then was apprenticed to a visiting
wizard from Aundair who had adventured with her father
many years before.
Both the wizard and Baristi's father had recognized
the powerful curiosity and intellect that Baristi possessed,
and though the young girl was nervous about leaving home,
she was also excited by the prospect of learning and perhaps
becoming a wizard in her own right.
Her mentor took her on his travels, and together
they visited the Great Library in Korranberg, the Arcane
Tower in Pran, the Wizard Enclave in Aundair, and the
Hall of Arcane Studies in Karrnath, among other sites.
When Baristi mastered the tests and was recognized as
a true wizard, her mentor presented her with his staff.
'As my mentor gave this to me," he said, "I bequeath this
arcane focus to you."
Now Baristi travels the world on her own, occasionally
joining an adventuring company or research group,
but more often living on her own as she continues to
study and learn.