THE MOURNLAND
Capital: None
Population: 1,000 [estimated] (98% warforged, 2%
other)
Exports: None
Languages: Common
Once, Cyre shone more brightly than any of its sibling nations
in the kingdom of Galifar. The Last War took a toll on the
nation and its citizens, slowly toppling its many achievements
as it became the battleground on which the armies of
Karrnath and Thrane and Breland clashed. Finally, disaster
struck. No one knows if the catastrophe was caused by a
weapon from an enemy nation or a doomsday device of Cyre's
own design. The cataclysm may have been deliberate; it may
have been an accident. In the end, the result was the same.
Beautiful Cyre, jewel of Galifar's vast holdings, exploded in
a blast of arcane power the likes of which hadn't been seen
since the ruin of Xen'drik forty thousand years before. On
the Day of Mourning in 994 YK, Cyre disappeared. Now the
region that was once Cyre goes by a different, darker name.
Now it is simply the Mournland.
A dead-gray mist hugs the borders of the Mournland,
creating a barrier that only occasionally offers a glimpse of
the desolation and devastation inside. Beyond the mist, this
battle-scarred region remains a grim memory of the Last
War, cloaked in perpetual twilight. Like a wound that will
not heal, the land is broken and blasted. In some places the
ground has fused into jagged glass. In others, it is cracked
and burned and gouged. Broken bodies of soldiers from
various sides litter the landscapesoldiers whose dead
bodies refuse to decompose. The Mournland is, quite
literally, a vast open grave.
In the Mournland, the wounds of war never heal, vile
magical effects linger, and monsters mutate into even more
foul and horrible creatures. Arcane effects continue to rain
upon the land like magical storms that never dissipate.
Misshapened by the unnatural forces present across the
region, monsters rage and hunt as they struggle to survive.
Sometimes even some of the dead, animated by strange
powers radiating from the blasted ground, rise up to continue
fighting the war that has long since ended for the
living. In this land of disaster and mutation, a charismatic
warforged gathers followers to his side and seeks to build
an empire of his own.
INDUSTRIES
Once upon a time, Cyre was known for its fine manufactured
goods and its remarkable arts and crafts. The wealthy
throughout the Five Nations took pride in having one or
more pieces from the master artists of Cyre in their collections.
House Phiarlan made its headquarters in Cyre, where
its Entertainers and Artisans Guild was a driving force in
the creative spirit of the nation. (Rumors abound that House
Phiarlan somehow knew that disaster was imminent, since
all its leading family members were off on business when the
Day of Mourning occurred.) Today, nothing comes out of
the Mournland except for grief, terror, and the occasional
scavenged artifact left over from better days.
LIFE AND SOCIETY
The Cyrans who weren't killed in the disaster that mutated
the region fled to safer locales and now live as exiles in
other lands. Few sentient beings live within the borders
of the dead-gray mists, and no survivors of the old order
can be found in this shattered realm. The arcane force
that destroyed the nation killed most living things, so
survival itself is a near-impossible struggle. Now mutated
monsters roam the land, preying on each other and grazing
on the stubborn thornweeds that alone seem to thrive
in the blasted land.
Scavenger bands brave the Mournland, looking for art
objects and artifacts to sell. Though Thrane and Breland
attempt to keep such outlaws from operating out of their
environs, Karrnath encourages this kind of activity and
offers tempting bounties to those who recover items of
worth or power. In this regard, Karrnath and New Cyre
(in Breland) are in competition, for both groups want
to discover what happened on the Day of Mourning and
recover whatever can be saved from the wreckage. Independent
scavenger bands also approach the Mournland
from the Talenta Plains, Darguun, and Kraken Bay, while
raiding parties of Valenar elves venture into the region in
search of worthy challenges.
If the rumors are true, a society of sorts has claimed
the Mournland as its own. This society of warforged has
grown up around a charismatic and powerful warforged
leaderthe Lord of Blades. Somewhere within the border of
dead-gray mist, the enclave of the Lord of Blades rises above
the broken land as a beacon that gathers warforged who have
dedicated themselves more to their construct heritage than
to their living heritage. Every month or so, another warforged
enters the Mournland in search of this supposed
haven for living constructs. Some tales speak of the Lord of
Blades as a great philosopher and teacher. Others paint him
as a warlord and power-mad prophet seeking to establish a
warforged nation from which to challenge the weaker, fleshbound
races for supremacy of Khorvaire.
GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
The laws of the Mournland are deceptively harsh and
relatively simple: Those who enter the Mournland probably
won't survive. Those who do survive will be changedphysically,
spiritually, and mentally. Nature doesn't work here the
way it does outside the dead-gray mists. In the Mournland
the dead don't decompose, or necessarily even stop moving.
Some force or forces unleashed on the Day of Mourning
continue to mutate the land and the things that live (and die)
there, creating monstrosities the likes of which have never
before been seen on the continent of Khorvaire. (Natural
healing does not occur in the Mournland, and spells and
spell-like effects of the healing subschool do not work.)
The wretched creatures of the Mournland live by being
smarter, stronger, luckier, or more cunning than those around
them. Some laws of nature have been bent or broken here, but
the ultimate law remains in effectthe fit and strong survive
while the weak, slow, stupid, and unlucky die. Of course, even
death might not be the end in this place.
The Lord of Blades maintains a lean government that
resembles a cross between a theocracy and a military
188
dictatorship. This warforged visionary sees himself as both
a religious and military leader. In his camp, the word of
the Lord of Blades is law and canon. The warforged that
flock to his side accept his rule, or they are destroyed the
Lord of Blades allows no one to leave his movement.
POWER GROUPS
While certain powerful individuals live within the confines
of the Mournland, few power groups remain active in
the wake of the disaster of the Day of Mourning. Of these,
only one makes its home in the desolate land; the others
enter the Mournland to search for objects that gain them
wealth, power, or influence. Rumors also suggest that a
less militant warforged settlement has been established,
but little is known about this community. ,
Ikar's Salvage: The largest band of scavengers operating
in the Mournland, Ikar's Salvage has a mobile base of
operations that wanders the western edge of the Cyre River,
using barges to cross the river and elemental-powered land
carts to cross the Mournland wastes. Despite their capable
and professional appearance, Ikar's team is ruthless and
deadly, without regard for lifehuman or otherwise.
Ikar the Black (LE male half-orc, fighter 6) leads a team
of rough-and-tumble outlaws who have abandoned the trade
roads to rob and rape the remnants of the Mournland. Ikar
has open-ended contracts with the Karrnathi government,
Prince Oargev of New Gyre, and the Order of the Emerald
Claw. Although he always remembers to sell something of
interest to Karrnath and New Cyre, he saves the best of his
loot for his masters in the Emerald Claw. Ikar and his band,
which numbers about a dozen, make frequent runs into the
Mournland, concentrating on the ruins of the capital city
and the blasted land around it. Currently recovering from
an encounter with a living fireball, the half-orc needs to
audition applicants to replace the four men he lost.
Tke Khraal Lords: A vicious band of pirates and
marauders hides within the jungle of Khraal in southeastern
Darguun. Led by the cruel Baalo One-Eye (CE male
hobgoblin, barbarian 4), the Khraal Lords terrorize the
scattered goblinoid communities of southern Darguun. The
band also possesses two small warships it recovered from a
Cyran base on the Ghaal River. Now Baalo and his followers
use the ships to raid vessels crossing Kraken Bay, though
they avoid prey that is better armed or more sea-savvy than
themselves (which includes most ships they come across).
For this reason, the Khraal Lords have begun sending
scavenging forays into the Mournland from the southern
sea. With few connections outside Darguun, Baalo has been
selling whatever relics he acquires to a House Deneith clerk
who tends an outpost in Wyvernskull. The clerk, a hireling
without blood ties to the house, pays a third of what the relics
are worth and has been selling them, in turn, to Prince
Oargev of New Cyre for a handsome profit.
The Lord of Blades: The warforged visionary known
as the Lord of Blades has established the foundation for a
warforged nation in the barren reaches of the Mournland.
No one is quite sure where the Lord of Blades came from,
and no outsider knows exactly where his mythical city of
living constructs might be located. Some tales claim that
the Lord of Blades led the warforged armies of Cyre in the
Last War. Others cast him as a newer warforged, perhaps
the last to come out of the Cannith creation forges before
the Thronehold Accords led to their dismantling. One
black tale paints a story of how the Lord of Blades caused the
destruction of Cyre, warning that he plans to repeat the
Day of Mourning in each of the remaining Five Nations.
Whatever the truth, the warforged messiah has become a
beacon for a segment of the warforged populationand is
considered an abomination by the rest.
The Lord of Blades (LE male personality warforged,
fighter 2/artificer 5/warforged juggernaut 5) has a fanatical
band of warforged followers at his side, devotees who memorize
his sermons advocating supremacy for constructs. He
preaches an apocalyptic vision of a future where the warforged
will destroy or enslave the weaker nations of flesh and blood.
"We were made to rule Eberron," the Lord of Blades has
declared over and over again, "and the day will come when
the warforged will inherit the world by blade and blood!"
No one knows how many warforged have joined forces
with the Lord of Blades. While most authorities throughout
the surrounding regions believe that this dangerous
prophet exists, no one has been able to gather much intelligence
concerning his activities. Even the elves of House
Phiarlan are in the dark about the Lord of Bladesand
that's not a place the House of Shadow likes to be.
RELIGION
The gods have deserted the Mournland. However, the followers
of the Lord of Blades see their leader as a prophet
of sorts. His message is only to the warforged, since his
scripture deals with building a nation of living constructs
out of the Mournland and then carving an empire from
the flesh and blood of the common races. His followers
look forward to the Promised Time, when those created as
slaves will rule over their former masters.
MAJOR CITIES
The cities of Cyre, once grand and beautiful, lie in ruins
throughout the Mournland. Nothing lives within them
except scavenging beasts and marauding monsters.
Metrol (Ruined Metropolis): This great city was once
the capital of Cyre. Now it lies empty, waiting forlornly along
the Cyre River for its people to return. Parts of Metrol have
been shattered, its buildings crushed and tumbled by whatever
force decimated the nation. Other portions of the city
escaped with only superficial damage; aside from the absence
of people and the dead-gray shroud of mist that hangs over
the area, it looks much as it did before the nation fell. While
the days in Metrol are quiet, the nights bring a cacophony of
chaos and violence to the streets of the fallen metropolisat
night, the ghostbeasts prowl and howl and wail.
The scavengers who plunder Metrol for abandoned
riches have described the ghostbeasts as vaguely humanoid
in shape but with hairless, translucent skin that appears to
glow with a pale inner light. Some of the scavengers believe
that the ghostbeasts are guardian spirits left behind by the
royal family of Cyre to protect the city. Others say that they
are the ghosts of the city's dead. Most, however, don't care
what they are. They either avoid the place or attempt to kill
the creatures if they get in their way.
Structures still believed to be more or less intact in
Metrol include the royal palaces of Vemishard; the great
Cathedral on the Hill devoted to the Sovereign Host; the
huge lightning rail station that once served as the gateway
to the west; and the wondrous Metrol Arena, where great
games, performances, celebrations, and competitions once
enthralled the crowds.
Eston (Ruined Small City): This community,
located on the western border of Cyre, used to serve as the
base of operations for House Cannith. When Cyre was
destroyed, Cannith's patriarch and many of the house's
most prominent members were lost in the disaster. Since
that time, the leadership of the house has been divided
among three remaining high-ranking family members
(see page 231).
Eston suffered greater damage than Metrol, with
shattered streets that swallowed whole neighborhoods and
collapsed buildings on every corner. Scavengers and other
fortune hunters nevertheless brave the dangers of the
Mournland occasionally, striving to reach Eston to locate
whatever Cannith wonders might have survived beneath
the rubble and ruins.
The area around the ruined city has become the hunting
ground for all manner of mutated monsters and freefloating
living spells created in the aftermath of Cyre's
destruction. For this reason, reaching Eston is no simple
task. Overland travel puts adventurers at risk from the
monstrous inhabitants of the area. Approaching the wall
of mist from Lake Arul isn't a much better route, since
mutated creatures have taken up residence in the water and
patrol the coast for prey.
IMPORTANT SITES
The Mournland is a realm of mystery and devastation. A
few sites are described in the legends already gathering
around lost Cyre, but much more lies hidden within the
cloak of dead-gray mist that surrounds the land.
Tke Dead-Gray Mist: Whatever arcane event led to
the destruction of Cyre, it created a wall of mist that spread
out until it defined the Mournland's borders in all directions.
The shroud of mist hangs like a curtain, separating
the Mournland from its neighbors. Thick and cloying at
the borders, the mist rises some one hundred feet into the
sky and forms a canopy that hides the ruined realm even
from above. Strong winds occasionally part the mists in
places, but these breaks don't last long. Passing from outside
the Mournland into the mist is like entering a shadowy,
muffled region devoid of life and sun and sound. Eventually,
the thick mist gives way to a less oppressive fog, but
depending on the day and the location of entry, that borderland
of mist can range in depth from a few hundred
feet to as much as five miles. Travelers in the thick border
of mist suffer from claustrophobia and often grow weary
and depressed for no apparent reason. It's easy to become
turned around and lost in the mist, and those brave enough
to venture into it often wind up going in circles until their
food and water give out or they blunder into the path of
some mutated terror prowling the borderland. (Those who
fail a DC 20 Survival check become disoriented and travel
in a random direction for 1d4 hours.)
190
The Glass Plateau: One result of the disaster that
destroyed Cyre was the creation of a highland plateau made
of sharp, glasslike formations. The overall appearance of
the plateau is smooth and flat, though jagged spikes and
spires jut up from the ground in apparently random places.
The central portion of this highland plain is obsidian,
and bursts of fiery light can sometimes be seen in its dark
depths. Toward the edges of the plateau, the glass becomes
lighter and more translucent, until it appears almost white
along the jagged cliffs that separate the heights from the
lowlands surrounding it.
Nothing grows on this plain of glass, and few creatures
can be found among its jagged peaks and flat expanse.
Living spells, on the other hand, seem drawn to the area;
the greatest concentration of these strange entities can be
found on and around the Glass Plateau. Rumors abound
of caves within and beneath the plateau, where it is said
that the truth behind the destruction of Cyre waits to be
discovered by someone strong enough, brave enough, and
foolish enough to venture so deep into the Mournland.
The Field of Ruins: The last battle of the Last War
took place in Cyre southwest of what is now the Glass
Plateau. Here, forces from Thrane, Cyre, Breland, and
Darguun clashed in a chaotic epic battle. Those forces died
on the Day of Mourning, caught in the backlash of the
arcane effect that destroyed the entire nation. The remains
of this battle can still be seen; the Field of Ruins is noteworthy
among similar places throughout the Mournland
primarily because of the sheer number of troops whose
bodies litter this battlefield. These soldiers, who died four
years ago, appear as they did the day life abandoned them.
Not one has shown signs of rot or decay. Wounds gape
wide, flesh refuses to fester and flake, armor and weapons
remain untarnished and rust-free. Vast war machines,
siege engines, and other devices of destruction brought
by the opposing forces now stand in silent vigil over the
bodies of the dead.
Most visitors to the Field of Ruins find themselves
moved to follow the example of the explorer who discovered
the place, offering prayers to all those who sprawl in
this uncovered graveThrane knights lying beside Darguun
warriors, Brelish archers piled among Cyran militia.
They are not undead, but they are unnatural just the same,
for some force keeps them preserved despite the passage of
time. Even the scavenging beasts of the Mournland refuse
to disturb these bodies.
The Glowing Chasm: North of the Glass Plateau, a
great crack in the ground gives forth a cold purple light.
This supernatural glow emanates from deep within the
Glowing Chasm, so far down that its source can't be identified
from above (and to date no one who descended into
the chasm has come out alive again). The mutated monsters
that roam the Mournland seem drawn to this location, and
some believe that the purple glow had a role in creating
them. While the glow might not be related to the origin of
the mutated monsters, it definitely has an effect on these
creatures. Those that spend any significant time near the
Glowing Chasm mutate further, becoming even more
twisted and misshapen than they were prior to bathing in
the cold purple light.
ADVENTURING IN
THE MOURNLAND
The Mournland shows the horrors of arcane war. The place
has a dead, tomblike air about it. Nothing natural exists
within its borders of thick, gray mist, and living spells
roam the land. Surviving within the Mournland isn't an
easy task; the few plants and animals that can be found are
tainted and mutated in vile ways. Even the water in and
around the Mournland has a dark taint to it, a taint that has
begun to seep into Lake Cyre, Lake Arul, and the nearest
waterways. Adventurers won't find much in the way of help
or supplies within the Mournland. They may still want to
enter the place to loot the ruins or perform some other
mission, but they will have a hard time remaining within
its confines for any length of time. Indeed, time and nature
seem to operate in strange ways within the Mournland, and
magic isn't guaranteed to function in expected ways within
this mist-shrouded land.
ADVENTURE IDEAS
A party of adventurers seeks to find and stop a powerful
warforged soldier who is still fighting the Last War.
The warforged either doesn't know or doesn't care that
peace treaties have been signed. It follows the last orders it
was given and seeks to destroy all enemies. Striking from
out of the Mournland, it has hit targets in Karrnath, the
Talenta Plains, Valenar, Darguun, Breland, and Thrane,
each time retreating back into the mists to plan its next
attack. The adventurers must track the warforged to its
lair and convince it that the Last War is overor destroy it
before it can strike again.
Baron Merrix of House Cannith hires adventurers
to travel to the ruined city of Eston in search of artifacts
kept in the house enclave now buried in that location.
A mutated bulette of enormous size has emerged
from the Mournland to devour herds and threaten the
settlements of eastern Breland.
Prince Oargev of New Cyre presents a party of
adventurers with a map to a hidden installation near
the Glowing Chasm. In this arcane tower, potent tomes
await the Cyran heirand Oargev wants the adventurers
to claim them in his name and bring them to him in
New Cyre.
A noble requests that the adventurers travel to the
Field of Ruins and search for her son. He was a captain
in the Thrane army, and she wants his body returned to
Thrane for a proper burial.
A lightning rail coach never finished its trip across
Cyre on the Day of Mourning. House Orien needs adventurers
willing to follow the path of conductor stones' find the
lost train, and bring back the near-priceless works of
Cyran art being shipped in its luggage compartment,
enabling the couriers to finally complete their longdelayed
delivery.
The halflings of the Talenta Plains have become disturbed
by a strange glow far out in Lake Cyre. The elders of
the tribe believe that the glow is related to the Mournland
and could prove dangerous to the people of the plains, so
they seek adventurers to check it out.