LIFE AND SOCIETY
Darguun consists of three regions: the Seawall Mountains,
the northern plains, and the southern wilderness. Most
of the nation's population lives in the mountains and along
the two major rivers, the Ghaal and the Torlaac.
The nation is home to three major goblinoid tribes
and the various clans associated with them. These tribes
are the Ghaal'dar clans of the lowlands, the Dhakaani clans
who rule the mountain depths, and the highland clans of
the Marguul.
In the Seawall Mountains, goblinoid tribes and clans
continue to live as they have for the last few centuries.
152
They spend most of their time fighting each other, following
the law of the strong survive. A powerful tribe made up
of the Dhakaani clans hiding deep within the mountains
claims to be the direct descendants of the rulers of the old
empire, and it plots a return to goblinoid glory.
Travel through the mountains is difficult; there are
few established paths, and the mountain goblins are generally
hostile to members of the common races. Travelers
on authorized business can obtain a banner of safe passage
from tribal leaders, but most tribes don't recognize
the authority of other tribes. A banner from the Lhesh
Haruuc, whose stronghold is the capital of Rhukaan Draal,
provides some protection, but even it doesn't guarantee
complete safety when traveling through the territory of the
highland or Dhakaani clans. Many of the tribes keep slaves
drawn from the common races, including humans and
men. These slaves are captives taken during the Last
War, and the chieftains continue to look for new sources
to refill their slave pens.
The northern plains of Darguun were once part of
Gyre. Here, the goblins and hobgoblins have taken possession
of cities and villages once occupied by the common
races of Galifar. Many of the structures were devastated
during the Last War and have been patched together
according to goblin sensibilities. The net effect creates
a society that appears ramshackle and shabby. The Lhesh
Haruuc commands the lowland tribes, using kobold slaves
to farm the land and harvest the food to feed his subjects.
Tribal conflicts are still common, but travelers who hold a
banner of safe passage from the Lhesh Haruuc are usually
protected from aggression.
The southern reaches, including the Torlaac Moor
and the Khraal rain forest, are wilder and less settled than
the northern portion of the nation. Most of the goblinoid
settlements in this region can be found along the Torlaac
River, with few outposts deeper in the wilderness.
GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
Darguun is a volatile nation. The Ghaal'dar tribe makes
up the majority of the population, and most of the clans
in this tribe yield to the authority of the Lhesh Haruuc.
They follow because they respect Haruuc's leadership and
military power. Should either of those factors change, Darguun
could quickly collapse into chaos and anarchy. As it
is, Haruuc has little control over the mountain tribes. The
Marguul and Dhakaani clans usually ignore royal edicts,
and even the Ghaal'dar clans often fight one another
despite Haruuc's orders to work together.
For his part, Haruuc seeks to reshape goblinoid society
to match the model of ancient Galifar. Haruuc wants
to create a stable realm for his descendants, but he fears
that with his death the nation will fall victim to infighting
and ambitious clan lords. He has established a great court
at Rhukaan Draal, and representatives of all the clans
and tribes can be found there. But despite Haruuc's best
efforts, military might remains the only force the goblinoids
respect, and he frequently has to use this power to
quell disputes and drive through his edicts.