Mabar, the Endless Night
Utter blackness where no light shines fills the plane of
Mabar, the Endless Night. The starless night lasts forever,
its gloom never diminishing in the least. The darkness
literally devours the life of visitors to this plane, extinguishing
every spark of light that dares intrude upon the
Endless Night

Risia, the Plain of Ice
A blizzard above a field of blowing snow that covers an
infinite glacier, Risia consists of layer upon layer of
cold and ice. Though mountains break the surface of
the plain here and there, they are formed of solid ice,
not stone. Lakes and streams mark the landscape, but
they are not made of waterthey are places where the air
itself has congealed to a frigid liquid, deadly to the touch.
The atmosphere of Risia freezes the eyes and lungs, the
wind steals breath, and the snow buries and entombs
all things.

Shavarath, the Battleground
Three great armies mass eternally on the barren plains
of Shavarath: a celestial host of archons, an infernal
regiment of devils, and a swarming horde of demons.
Warfare defines all aspects of their existence. Alliances
come and gousually involving the devils allying with one
or the other of their enemies and then breaking the alliance
when the situation changes to their advantagebut
the warfare never ends. Slain soldiers eventually return,
usually in a lower form, but the armies of the three forces
remain forever in a rough balance.
Fortresses dot the landscape of Shavarath, each one
locked in a great siege. Every fortress eventually falls,
and they all shift hands many times before finally being
reduced to rubble. As one collapses, a new one is built to
replace it. Beyond these fortresses, the rocky and barren
landscape stretches in all directions, sporadically accentuated
by low hillsthe only distinguishable terrain anywhere
on the plane.

Syrania, the Azure Sky
Crystalline cities float in Syrania's endless expanse of
clear blue sky, their spires glittering in the ambient
radiance of its perfect atmosphere. These cities, each
ruled by a solar, are the homes of the angels. Angels are
the only known inhabitants of this plane, andthough
little is known of Syraniait seems to be a nearly perfect
paradise.

Thelanis, the Faerie Court
Physically similar to both Eberron and Lamannia,
Thelanis is a realm of rugged natural beautyprimarily
lush forests and crystal-clear waters. Among the trees
rise shadowy spires of enchanting beauty, surrounded
by mesmerizing lights that look like dancing lanterns.
Phosphorescence gleams on plants and stones, lighting
the eternal twilight of the plane, while a multitude of stars
twinkle in the sky

Xoriat, the Realm of Madness
Beyond description or comprehension, Xoriat is aptly
called the Realm of Madness. Not only do its alien geometry
and unspeakable inhabitants seem like the product
of a madman's nightmare, but any who visit Xoriat risk
finding their minds shattered by the experience.
Xoriat has been likened to a stack of translucent
parchment, an apparently infinite connection of layers
and dimensions. Its inhabitants exist on multiple layers
simultaneously. Massive, drifting entities too large to notice
visitors to the plane; free-floating rivers of milk-white
liquid; rains of blue globes falling from unseen heights,
only to burst and release horse-sized ticks when they strike
another objectsuch are the madness-inducing features
of Xoriat. Gelatinous worms wriggle from layer to layer,
wending through tentacled vegetation encrusted with
orange moss, all suspended above an amoebic sea. Over
this mad realm the daelkyr are absolute masters.
Like Dal Quor, Xoriat's last time of being coterminous
to the Material Plane was a disastrous period of
warfare. Over nine thousand years ago, Xoriat became
coterminous, and the daelkyr sent their minions into
Khorvaire to conquer it. Before the orc and hobgoblin
druids known as the Gatekeepers managed to alter Xoriat's
orbit, the mind flayers and lesser minions of the daelkyr
had decimated the hobgoblin Empire of Dhakaan. The
Gatekeepers' magic was less cataclysmic than the giants'
attempt to close the connection to Dal Quor, however;
Xoriat moved quickly away from its coterminous position
but is sure to return one day.

the world. For reasons unknown, the Shadow Marches
is somehow "close" to Xoriat, and the natives of the
Realm of Madness were able to enter Eberron there
during Xoriat's last coterminous phase. Throughout
the Shadow Marches, magic went wild, time flowed
strangely, and the daelkyr warped native creatures into
monstrous aberrations.
The intervention of the Gatekeepers during Xoriat's
last coterminous phase altered the plane's orbit, and
Xoriat has not been coterminous again since then.
Dimensional seals (see page 272) keep the plane away,
but various forces seek to break their power so Xoriat can
draw near again.

OUTSIDERS IN EBERRON
As in any D&D campaign, the natives of the various
planes can be brought to Eberron by means of spells such
as summon monster spells, planar ally and planar binding spells,
and gate. A few monsters described in the Monster Manual
as native to the Material Plane are actually extraplanar
beings in Eberron's cosmology. Mind flayers are native
to Xoriat, and thus can theoretically be brought to Eberron
through magic (although Xoriat may well be remote,
making it difficult to open a planar channel). Tritons are
found on Thelanis, rather than being native outsiders as
described in the Monster Manual.
Similarly, a number of creatures found as natives on
the Material Plane also live on the Outer Planes. These
include a number of fey native to Thelanis (dryads,
nymphs, satyrs, and sprites), shadows found on Mabar,
and normal animals, vermin, and lycanthropes found
on Lamannia. Calling spells such as planar ally and planar
binding can bring these creatures to the Material Plane,
where they gain the extraplanar subtype. Creatures of
these types found naturally on the Material Plane do not
have the extraplanar subtype, since they are native to the
Material Plane.
By contrast, night hags are outsiders native to Eberron,
and do not have the extraplanar subtype when encountered
on the Material Plane.
POSSESSION
Some fiends with at least 4 Hit Dice and a Charisma score
of at least 13 have the spell-like ability to shuck their physical
forms and take on an ethereal form that allows them to
possess another creature or an object.
The creature's new form is ethereal and thus immune
to even the most potent physical attacks and most magical
attacks (except, for example, force attacks) by nonethereal
creatures. When a fiend possesses a creature or object,
even force effects no longer affect the fiend. Only spells
such as dismissal can affect a possessing fiend when cast by
nonethereal creatures. Any other sort of attack, magical or
otherwise, directed against the fiend affects the possessed
creature or object instead.
While a fiend is in ethereal form, its corporeal body
lies senseless, as if in a state of suspended animation. The
body does not require food or air, but direct damage or
exposure to an extreme environment will kill it. A fiend
can roam ethereally as long as it wants, but an ethereal
fiend dies if its body is destroyed, and it instantly returns
to its body if dispel magic (or a similar effect) is successfully
cast on the fiend's body.
The caster level for a fiend's possession ability is equal
to the fiend's Hit Dice. Fiends with the possession ability
have a Challenge Rating 2 higher than standard fiends of
their kind. For example, a succubus with the possession
ability is a CR 9 creature.
Once a fiend is on the Ethereal Plane, it floats through
the world insubstantially, seeking a target to possess. Making
a possession attempt is a supernatural ability that a fiend
can use at will as a standard action.

