MORGRAVE UNIVERSITY
Morgrave University is not the most reputable institution
in Khorvaire. It lacks the resources of the Library
of Korranberg or Wynarn University, and many claim
that its archaeological activities are infested with smugglers
and treasure hunters. While the university lacks
the clout of its peers in Korranberg and Aundair, it is
much more accessible to young adventurers who have yet
to build a reputation.
In the past, most nobles were educated in the colleges
of Zilargo or Aundair. When Lord Lareth ir'Morgrave
established his university in the city of Sharn two hundred
sixty years ago, he claimed it would be "a beacon
of knowledge shining from the tallest towers of the city,
illuminating the forgotten secrets of the past." While
many city elders applauded Morgrave's work, he had his
enemies. Morgrave was said to have made his fortune
selling Dhakaani artifacts on the black market, and
some claimed that the true purpose of the university
was to assist him in his treasure hunting. Suspicions
aside, Sham's proximity to Xen'drik has made Morgrave
University a nexus for scholars wishing to study the
secret continent.
The Master of Morgrave University is the oldest heir
of the Morgrave line. Currently the university head is Larrian
ir'Morgrave (N male human, aristocrat 2/expert 5),
a scholar who has spent decades studying the civilizations
of ancient Xen'drik.
Morgrave University struggles to establish its academic
reputation, and the sages and scholars on the faculty
always watch for an opportunity to prove themselves.
That said, Morgrave's reputation for corruption is well
243
deserved. Many priceless relics recovered from Xen'drik
or Dhakaani ruins have been "stolen" from the university
vaults, only to find their way to the black market or into
the hands of the Aurum. Master Larrian has vowed to put
an end to these acts of smuggling and profiteering, but so
far he has done little to back up his promises.
Some people at the university do have ties to smugglers
and thieves, but many of the Morgrave scholars truly
believe in their work. A few of them have connections
with the .Library of Korranberg, the Wayfinder Foundation,
and the Twelve. Obviously these ties are not strong
enough to get the one of them a post at a more prestigious
institution, but an adventurer might be able to get a letter
of introduction from one of the Morgrave sages