Material Plane and the coterminous plane at certain
locations on each plane. For example, when Fernia is
coterminous to the Material Plane, a character can travel
to Fernia by means of a volcano or any extremely hot
fireand the natives of Fernia can enter Eberron just as
easily. Different planes' paths through the Astral Plane
bring them into a coterminous relationship with varying
frequency: Fernia draws near fairly often (one month
every five years), while Xoriat has not done so in over
seven thousand years.
When a plane is coterminous to the Material Plane,
certain of its traits may bleed over into the Material Plane,
or at least into certain regions of the Material Plane. For
example, when Risia is coterminous to the Material Plane,
spells with the cold descriptor are enhanced in certain
areas of the Material Plane. Not all planes have traits that
spill over into the Material Plane.
Waxing/Waning: As a plane draws close to becoming
coterminous it is called waxing, and as it moves away
after a period of being coterminous it is waning. No
special effects on the Material Plane occur when a plane
is waxing or waning.
Remote: When a plane is remote, it is difficult to
establish any connection at all between it and the Material
Plane. When Fernia is remote, fire spells work less
effectively, fire elementals are harder to summon, and
it is nearly impossible to reach that plane via plane shift.
Using plane shift to travel to a remote plane or using any
spell to call or summon a native of that plane requires
a Spellcraft check (DC 30 + spell level); a character with
5 or more ranks in Knowledge (the planes) receives a +2
circumstance bonus on this check.
The Planes in Play: Sages and astronomers of Eberron
use complex orreries and extensive charts to track the
position of the planes relative to Eberron. No Dungeon
Master should have to go to such lengths. For simplicity
in play, bring a given plane into a coterminous position
when it suits the needs of your campaign. If consistency is
important to you, keep track of when the event occurred
and when it will happen again, using the information in