higher learning ever established in the Five Nations.
Today, the University of Wynarn isn't as famous as Morgrave
University, but it is more highly regarded, offering
an excellent curriculum in both mundane and arcane
studies. Libraries and book traders abound throughout
Fairhaven, attracting collectors and scholars of all sorts
to the city. Though not quite as impressive as the great
Library of Korranberg, the Royal Collection of Aundair
stacks up as the second-best repository of tomes and scrolls
in all of Khorvaire.
The second center of learning is devoted to arcane
studies. Arcanix overlooks Lake Galifar, in the southern
reaches of the nation. Once, this ancient village was part
of Thrane, but Aundair claimed the village and the land
around it early in the Last War. The mentors of Arcanix
don't care who claims the village; they only want to continue
their studies of the arcane arts and pass along their
knowledge to the dozens of apprentices they accept into
their floating towers each season.
Additionally, small monasteries dot the countryside,
in which monks devoted to any number of gods or belief
systems spend time in quiet meditation and study. The
warrior-monks of the Monastery of Orla-un, located on
the edge of the village of Wyr, for example, are as famed for
the sweet, dark Orla-un wine as they are for their doctrine
of strong minds and stronger bodies.
House Orien maintains a number of major trade
roads throughout Aundair, as well as lightning rail extensions
that connect Fairhaven and Passage to Thrane and
Breland. In addition, smaller roads and paths riddle the
countryside, making travel throughout Aundair relatively
smooth and easy.
GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
Queen Aurala, a direct descendant of Wrogar son ofjarot,
rules the Aundairian monarchy; her family has held the
crown since the start of the Last War and the shattering of
Galifar. Aundair suffered more than some and less than
others did during the Last War, but in general the nation
enjoys a relatively safe and idyllic existence. Aurala continues
to receive the support and confidence of her vassal
lords, and most of the common people adore her.
Aurala's secret ambition is to quietly use the peace
to build up Aundair's strength, so that when the time is
right she can make her move and claim the Galifar crown
for her own. As she holds out her right hand in peace, she
directs the machines of war with her left.
Beneath the royal family, a wealthy group of nobles
oversees tracts of land partitioned to them by the crown.
Some of these noble families go back to the days of a united
Galifar and continue to oversee the land afforded them
by the Galifar king. Others are newer, granted title and
privilege due to actions undertaken during the Last War.
Aurala works hard to maintain the trust and support of her
nobles, for they continue to provide the troops and taxes
needed to keep Aundair safe and prosperous in this new
age of peace. Aurala also enjoys the counsel of the Arcane
Congress, a remnant of the original council of wizards
created by King Galifar as the royal answer to the Twelve
of the dragonmarked houses (see page 245). The congress
Eldeen Bay
is currently headquartered in Arcanix, with an annex at
the royal court in Fairhaven.

POWER GROUPS
All of the dragonmarked houses maintain emporiums and
outposts throughout Aundair. Some tension exists between
the houses and the crown since the marriage of Queen
Aurala to Sasik (CG male human, aristocrat 3/ranger 2)
of House Vadalis. Traditionally, the dragonmarked houses
and the royal families have avoided mixing to maintain a
division between rulership and commerce. Even though
Sasik, as the royal consort, has severed his claims to the
House Vadalis fortune, he nevertheless maintains ties that
make the other houses nervous about what advantages
Vadalis might be gaining in its dealings with Aundair.
House Lyrandar: The half-elves of House Lyrandar
have turned a harsh, storm-battered island into the seat
of the house matriarch, Esravash d'Lyrandar (NG female
half-elf, expert 7/dragonmarkheir 2). Stormhome, situated
off the northern coast of Aundair, appears on maps as
part of Aurala's nation, but there is no doubt that the place
belongs to Lyrandar. Using the full extent of their weathercontrolling
abilities, House Lyrandar has transformed the
island into a paradise. The days never grow too hot, the
nights never become too cold, and a warm breeze constantly
blows across the island. From here, the matriarch oversees
the various operations of her house throughout Khorvaire.
She maintains a civil relationship with Queen Aurala, and
the two often visit to discuss events happening around the
continent and share intelligencemuch to the dismay of
both the Royal Eyes of Aundair (Aurala's spies and intelligence
agents) and House Lyrandar's elders.
House Orien: The patriarch of House Orien, Kwanti
d'Orien (CN male human, sorcerer 7/dragonmark heir 3),
maintains a lavish enclave in the city of Passage. While a
royal mayor governs the city, House Orien has an amazing
amount of influence in the region. The majority of
the population works for the house, and the leaders of the
house constantly lobby for laws and regulations that favor
trade and transportation. While Passage is the ancestral
home of Orien, today it is but one of many headquarters
the patriarch uses as he constantly travels the continent to
oversee the operations of his house.
House Cannith: The holders of the Mark of Making
do not recognize a single head of the family. While the
situation hasn't become as bad as the split that led to
the formation of two houses for the Mark of Shadow, it
nonetheless weakens the overall power and influence of
House Cannith. Instead of a single patriarch or matriarch
overseeing the family conglomerate, three leaders oversee
operations in different parts of Khorvaire and only sporadically
confer and deal with one another. One of these
leaders, Jorlanna d'Cannith (LN female human, wizard
8), makes her base in Fairhaven, organizing the house's
efforts in Aundair, Thrane, and the Eldeen Reaches from
a modest enclave in the city's industrial center.
The Royal Family: Aundair's royal family consists of
Queen Aurala, her consort Sasik, her three children, and
the extended families of her four siblings. Aurala's brother
Adal (LN male human, fighter 3/wizard 3) serves as her
warlord and minister of magic, and he shares her desire
to see the Galifar crown on the head of an Aundair lord.
He wants that head to be his, though, and not his sister's.
Another brother, Aurad (LG male human, aristocrat 6),
serves as Aurala's chief advisor and governor of Fairhaven.
Her youngest sisters, the twins Wrel and Wrey, currently
study with the mages of Arcanix. From the royal court
of Fairhold, built at the heart of the city of Fairhaven,
Aurala governs the land using everything at her disposal.
She hopes that the overtures of peace that resulted in the
Treaty of Thronehold continue at least until she has had a
chance to reinforce her kingdom, but she has reservations
about some of the less refined new nations. Currently, the
Royal Eyes of Aundair keep watch on the activities of
the other nations as Aurala plays diplomat in public and
conspirator in private.
The Arcane Congress: The last vestiges of the great
magical study project undertaken by King Galifar I, the
Arcane Congress consists of a council of wizards and sorcerers
who continue to explore the limits of the arcane
arts. The royal warlord and minister of magic, Adal, serves
as the go-between for the crown and the congress, though
some factions within the congress distrust Adal due to his
fascination with war and weapons of arcane destruction.
In addition to providing Queen Aurala with advice on
arcane matters, the congress oversees the floating towers of