The half-elf moved through the tower corridor silent as a breeze. She had
known that the Bandit Lord would not take kindly to having his plans
thwarted, but neither she nor Corrash could abide those who preyed on the
weak and helpless. So they had rescued the Gyre refugees, dispatched six of
the Bandit Lord's thugs, and cost the despicable ogre a small fortune inpreWar
gold. Kuduth smiled to herself, imagining the ogre's expression when
he discovered that the refugees had been set free. But the two adventurers
never imagined that the Bandit Lord would declare a bounty on Corrash's
head, or that Corrash would be stupid enough to blunder into the trap set
by the ogre's enforcers.
Kuduth paused, peering into the darkness ahead. "Too many shadows
for my taste," the half-elf decided, bringing her holy symbol to bear
and calling forth the power of her god. uDol Arrah, your faithful cleric
prays for jour light to banish the darkness." The holy symbol burst into
light, glowing like the sun, and the alcoves ahead were revealedas were
the kobolds, temporarily blinded by Dol Arrah's light, standing within
them. "By the Lady of Sun and Battle," Kuduth shouted as she drew her
mace, "let us dance!"
A 4th-level half-elf cleric of the Sovereign Host, Kuduth is
a worldly and sophisticated female from Karrnath. Skilled
in diplomacy and well versed in the history of Khorvaire,
Kuduth hated everything about the Last War. Not that she
has anything against honorable and necessary combat; she
just has no tolerance for a war that she believes sprang from
pride and stupidity. The cleric refused to become a part of
the civil war, and instead fled to Q'barra while the battles
raged in her homeland.
In Q'barra, Kuduth met Corrash, a halfling barbarian,
and the two of them became adventuring companions
and fast friends. The pair has traveled across the continent
in search of action and adventure, eventually reaching
Sharn, the City of Towers. In Sharn, they joined forces
with two other adventurers to investigate trouble in the
Mournlandtrouble that might have to do with the Blood
of Vol, a cult that intrigues Kuduth greatly.
Among the deities of the Sovereign Host, Kuduth
feels most strongly drawn to Dol Arrah. Like her patron,
Kuduth has a sunny disposition and seeks to do as much
good in the world as she can. When anger overtakes her,
however, she becomes a fearsome warrior, and foes quail
before her wrath.