THE TWELVE
An arcane institution funded by the dragonmarked houses,
the Twelve operates out of a thirteen-tiered keep that floats
above the city of Korth in Karrnath. As part of the agreements
that ended the War of the Mark, Hadran d'Cannith
suggested that the houses work together to create an institute
for the application of magic a foundation that would study
dragonmarks and the more traditional forms of arcane
magic. The keep was built by Alder d'Cannith, a visionary
wizard and master fabricator who used his studies of the sky
to determine that the keep should possess thirteen towers.
"The moons suggest that the perfect number of dragonmarks
is thirteen," Alder cryptically explained, "but we shall call
the institution the Twelve, for the thirteenth mark was cast
245
off long ago." No one argued with him. (While the elves
remember the Mark of Death, it is a topic they wish to forget.
Aside from the elf leaders, few know the truth behind the
lost dragonmark.)
Over the centuries, the institute has been responsible
for many arcane advances. The artificers of the
Twelve helped develop the airships operated by House
Lyrandar, for example, as well as the message stations
of House Sivis.
As an arm of the dragonmarked houses, the Twelve
attempted to remain neutral during the Last War. However,
many of the wizards and artificers of the Twelve had
national loyalties that were stronger than their ties to
the institute, and they chose to leave to fight in the war.
Quite a few fell in battle. Now that the Twelve has resumed
normal operations, it seeks to replace its fallen members
and make sure that each house is represented.
The Committee of Twelve oversees the institute.
The committee actually has more than twelve members;
there are twelve dragonmarks, but the split of House
Phiarlan and House Thuranni and the current troubles
within House Cannith have caused the membership
to fluctuate.
The Twelve has access to a tremendous array of mystical
supplies and funding, and the greatest wizards and
magewrights of the land fight for workshop privileges at the
institute. Advances made at the institute are shared equally
among the houses, although there are always rumors of
one or more of the houses diverting funds for secret projects
or attempting to conceal valuable discoveries.
As an institution, the Twelve seeks to advance the mystical
arts. In particular, the Committee of Twelve looks for
magical developments that have practical value to society
and a potential for profit. The Twelve has a great deal to
offer arcane adventurers. It has access to considerable stores
of rare mystical components and a vast library of spells.
Even the mundane can find the Twelve to be an invaluable
asset, because the sages at the institute can quickly identify
unusual magic items or artifacts. However, being a prestigious
organization, the Twelve will not deal with adventurers
until they have developed a positive reputation.
King Galifar I, not completely convinced of the dragonmarked
houses' neutrality and altruistic outlook, established
the Arcane Congress as direct competition for the
Twelve. Today, the two institutes of magical studies engage
in a more or less friendly rivalry for resources, students,
and arcane discoveries.