THE ELDEEN REACHES
Capital: Greenheart
Population: 500,000 (45% humans, 16% half-men, 16%
shifters, 7% men, 7% men, 3% orcs, 3% men,
3% other races)
Exports: Agriculture, animal husbandry
The Eldeen Reaches cover the northwestern region of Caeros
to the Shadowcrag Mountains. The eastern Reaches
feature fertile plains and rolling hills, but dense forests cover
the majority of the nation. These forests house some of the
most primeval trees on the continent, ancient growths that
have survived the rise and fall of empires and witnessed the
arrival of humans on the shores of Caeros. The forces of
magic permeate these woods, and strange beasts and mischievous
fey roam the land. Many dangers also lurk in the
deep woods, and the humanoids who make their homes in
these forests don't always take kindly to visitors.
The deep woods of the Eldeen Reaches remain mostly
as uncultivated and pure as they were when the world was
young. In the Age of Monsters, when the goblinoids forged
an empire across Caeros, the Eldeen Reaches were the
domain of orcs who sought to live in harmony with the wilderness.
The orcs were devastated and decimated in the
war against the daelkyr. As a result of this terrible conflict,
the forest was seeded with aberrations and horrid creatures
formed by the sinister shapers of flesh.
Millennia passed, and humans came to Caeros. As
the nations that would one day join together as Galifar took
shape, the Eldeen Reaches were largely left alone thanks
to tales of the "haunted forest" west of the Wynarn River,
filled with monsters and demons. Still, over the course of
centuries, humans and members of the other common
races slowly drifted into the Reaches. Some came in search
of land and opportunity. Hunters and warriors devoted to
the Silver Flame came to battle evil magical beasts, eventually
driving the more dangerous creatures into the deep
woods. Others were drawn to the woods, called by a force
they could not name. Deep in the ancient forest, those who
heard the call met with the Great Druid Oalian, an awakened
greatpine who has watched over the woods for more than
four thousand years. He taught those who heard his call the
ways of the wild and the duties of the ancient Gatekeepers.
His teachings inspired all the druid sects that eventually
grew up in the Reaches.
Centuries passed. The druid society grew and spread
throughout the forest, which came to be known as the
Towering Wood. The younger races brought their own
customs and perspectives to the Reaches, of course, and
Oalian's teachings had already begun to diverge from
those of the original Gatekeepers. In time, the druids
fragmented into a dozen sects. Meanwhile, the nation of
Aundair claimed the fertile plains along the eastern edge
of the woods, and farmers and settlers spread across the
river. Despite minor conflicts between shifter and settler,
settler and druid, and even among the druids themsmen,
the region prospered.
The Last War proved to be the undoing of the old
order. As the conflict intensified, Aundair pulled its
forces back to protect its heartland and eastern borders,
leaving the Eldeen Reaches to fend for themsmen. Bandit
lords sponsored by Karrnath and the Lhazaar Principalities
harried the farms west of the Wynarn River, using the
forest as a base and staging ground. In the south, Brelish
troops crossed the Silver Lake to occupy Sylbaran, Greenblade,
and Erlaskar. As things went from bad to worse, an
army of druids and rangers emerged from the forest. In
956 YK, the Wardens of the Wood rallied the farmers
and peasants, crushing the bandit army before it knew
what was happening. With order restored in the north,
the Wardens turned their attention to the south. In 959
YK, they finally succeeded in driving the Brelish forces
back across the lake.
Angry at the Aundairian crown for abandoning them,
the people swore allegiance to the Great Druid, breaking all
ties with the lords of Aundair and resisting several Aundair
attempts to regain control. Since 958 YK, the people of the
Eldeen Reaches have considered themsmen to be part of
an independent nation, and they were finally recognized
as such with the signing of the Treaty of Starhaven. It
remains to be seen whether Aundair will try to reclaim its
old territories now that the Last War has ended.
INDUSTRIES
The Eldeen Reaches contain some of the most fertile land
in all of Caeros. Guided by the ancient wisdom of the
druids, Eldeen farmers produce abundant harvests of all
manner of cropsmuch more than the relatively small
population can use. Therefore, agriculture has become
a big business for the people of the Reaches. Breland
and Karrnath, in particular, utilize Eldeen produce to
supplement the output of their own farms to help feed
their highly industrialized societies. For this reason, both
nations have tried to gain footholds in the region, and may
do so again if trade or the peace efforts fail.
In addition to agriculture, animal husbandry is a
major industry in the eastern reaches. House Vernalis is
concentrated in the Eldeen Reaches and has spent generations
working to domesticate the unusual creatures of the
region and using magebreeding techniques to produce
new and superior lines of existing species. Mounts, guard
beasts, superior livestock, and exotic pets often originate
in the Eldeen Reaches.
Darkwood groves are scattered throughout the reaches,
and the forests contain many exotic plants and animals
that have valuable alchemical or mystical properties. However,
the druids discourage the harvesting of rare plants
from the woods, and the Wardens of the Wood deal harshly
with poachers caught hunting the creatures of the forest
for personal gain.
Poaching aside, most of the druid sects tolerate
the industries of the northeastern farmers and House
Vernalis, as long as the land and livestock are treated
with care and respect. Many villages have a local druid
who provides spiritual guidance and agricultural advice.
However, a few extremist sectsmost notably the Ashboundview
such acts as a violation of the natural order.
These extremist sects occasionally strike out against the
northeastern communities.
170
LIFE AND SOCIETY
Two distinct cultures occupy the Eldeen Reaches. The
Towering Wood that fills most of the region is home to the
various druid sects, while the agricultural communities
dominate the northeastern plains.
The farmers of the northeastern region live simple,
rustic lives. They have worked the land for generations and
possess a strong sense of pride and ownership. The typical
Reacher has little interest in events beyond his village but
a fierce loyalty to the people of his community. The region
has never been heavily populated, and there is plenty of
room for the farmers to expand. A Reacher focuses on
caring for the land, producing a good harvest, and leaving
his or her children a larger farm. While strangers may be
treated with suspicion in some communities, in general
the people of the Reaches are generous and friendly, doing
what they can to make travelers comfortable.
House Vernalis maintains communities along the
eastern border that are larger than the farming villages
and generally more sophisticated in terms of the services
and forms of entertainment available to travelers. While
Vernalis respects the power and influence of the Wardens
of the Wood, Vernalis towns rarely have druid advisors;
the house considers the powers of its dragonmark heirs to
be proof of its own strong bond
to nature.
A dozen distinct druid sects inhabit the Towering
Wood. The largest of the sects, the Wardens of the Wood,
has communities scattered throughout the forest. The
other sects are largely nomadic. Most remain within specific
regions of the great wood, but the Ashbound and a
few others migrate across the length of the forest. Each sect
has its own customs and practices, and sometimes these
customs conflict with those of another group. The Wardens
of the Wood provide a warm welcome to all travelers
who show proper respect for the forces of nature, while
the Ashbound are often suspicious of travelers and hostile
toward those who practice arcane magic.
The majority of Caeros's shifter population resides
in the western half of the Reaches. While many shifters
have integrated into the druid sects, a number of shifter
tribes also live in the woods. Like the druid sects, each tribe
has distinct customs. Some of the shifter tribes follow a
nomadic lifestyle; these shifters generally celebrate their
bond to the natural world and prefer to avoid all contact
with other races. Stationary tribes usually embrace their
human heritage, establishing hamlets and trading with
travelers and the people of the northeastern plains. All suffered
to at least some degree at the hands of the Silver Flame
inquisitions over the centuries, but in recent years the
Church of the Silver Flame has altered its attitude toward
the shifters; it no longer considers them to be the spawn
of evil. While it hasn't embraced the shifters, the Church
no longer sees them as creatures that must be destroyed
(despite their lycanthropic
heritage).
An ancient druid
observatory in the
Eldeen Reaches
171
GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
For the past forty years, the Eldeen Reaches have officially
been under the protection and guidance of Oalian, the
Great Druid of the Wardens of the Wood. Long dominant
in the forest, the Wardens have spread out into the
plains to ensure order throughout the region. Each village
has a druid counselor (of anywhere from 1st to 7th level,
depending on the size of the community) who provides
magical assistance and spiritual guidance, and who advises
the leaders of the community. Councils made up of representatives
from each farming family govern each of the
communities. Bands of Warden rangers patrol the forest,
responding to threats as they arise.
The shifter tribes and druid sects have their own
customs, but leaders are usually chosen based on age and
spiritual wisdom. Concepts of law are guided by the ways
of nature, and justice is usually swift and harsh.
Politically, the folk of the Eldeen Reaches largely ignore
the events of the east and are ignored in return. The Wardens
of the Wood have made clear to Breland and Aundair
that they will defend the nation against any military threat
and have no interest in further discussions regarding borders,
treaties, or resource rights.
POWER GROUPS
The Eldeen Reaches seem peaceful on the surface, and
the northeastern plains exist in a fairly stable environment
under the watchful eye of the Wardens of the
Wood. The western woods, on the other hand, are full
of intrigue and subtle conflict. Here, the druid sects,
shifter tribes, and fey forces maintain a precarious balance
of power. Other than House Vernalis, only House
Oraite has a strong presence in the region. Oraite trade
roads and caravans provide the means for exchanging
vital goods between the Reaches and the other nations.
Other houses may offer their services in the towns controlled
by House Vernalis but rarely operate elsewhere
in the region.
House Vernalis: The Mark of Handling first emerged
among the earliest human settlers of the northeastern
Reaches, and the house has maintained its greatest
strongholds in the region ever since. Vernalis controls three
small towns and a small city in the Reaches, and goods and
services from the other nations can be acquired in these
locations on a regular basis. The small towns are Merylsward,
Delethorn, and Erlaskar; the small city is Varna,
on the Aundair border, home of the Vernalis patriarch.
Vernalis appreciates the security and order provided by the
Wardens of the Wood and maintains a friendly relationship
with most of the druid sects. However, the house has
clashed many times with the Ashbound, a sect that abhors
the house's work with magebred animals.
The Gatekeepers: The oldest druid tradition in all
of Caeros, the Gatekeepers hold true to their charge
of vigilance against the horrors of the Dragon Below.
Today, less than a hundred Gatekeepers work within
the Reaches. These druids maintain old wards scattered
around the region, seals that hold the daelkyr and other
ancient powers in check. They also watch the skies for signs
of deadly planar convergences. Most of the Gatekeepers
in the Eldeen Reaches are orcs, though a few humans and
half-orcs can be found within the sect.
The Wardens of the Wood: The largest and most influential
druid sect in the Eldeen Reaches, the Wardens can
be found across the nation, guarding both plain and forest.
Their ranks have swelled over the last generation, as many a
farmer's son or daughter has dedicated his or her life to the
druidic mysteries. The Wardens maintain order across the
Reaches, and all of the sects respect the power and wisdom
of the Great Druid who commands them. Oalian, a massive
greatpine approximately 210 feet high and more than
four thousand years old, was touched by the awaken spell of
a long-dead Gatekeeper druid. Bound to the land and the
great forest of the Eldeen Reaches, Oalian is the oldest and
most powerful druid in Estium. The Wardens maintain
communities throughout the region, including Greenheart,
Sylbaran, and Havenglen.
The Cults of the Dragon Below: The legacy of the
daelkyr can be found throughout the great wood. Aberrations
and other twisted horrors still lurk in the shadows
of the forest. Cultists from the Shadow Marches occasionally
travel into the Reaches, and shifter tribes and eastern
villagers have sometimes been corrupted by the seductive
madness of the Dragon Below. These cultists generally
battle the Gatekeepers, seeking to undo the ancient wards
guarded by the orc druids.
The Lesser Sects: In addition to the Wardens of the
Wood, a number of smaller sectswhich can prove to be
valuable allies or dangerous antagonistsalso work within
the region. These include the Ashbound, dangerous fanatics
who roam the great forest, striking against the farmers
of the plains and others they see as threats to the natural
order; the Children of Winter, nihilists who embrace death
as part of the natural cycle of life; and the Greensingers,
druids and rangers with close ties to the fey, who can be
found near the Twilight Demesne.
RELIGION
Druid traditions dominate the Eldeen Reaches. The
Wardens of the Wood hold sway over the region, and most
communities have a Warden druid who serves as a spiritual
guide and advisor. The Wardens seek to find a balance
between human advancement and nature. Unlike the Ashbound,
the Wardens have no problem with agriculture,
animal husbandry, or hunting for food, as long as proper
respect is shown for the land. The Wardens also respect
the fey as embodiments of naturedestroying a dryad's
tree is a terrible crime.
While most of the villagers of the eastern Reaches
respect the authority and wisdom of the druids, other
beliefs and traditions can be found; the Wardens do not
prevent the worship of other deities. While few churches
exist in the Reaches, the Sovereign Lords Dol Arrah,
Olladra, Boldrei, and especially Arawi and Balinor are
commonly invoked and revered.
MAJOR CITIES
Small agricultural communities are scattered across the
eastern Reaches; most of these are hamlets and villages.
House Vernalis maintains small towns spread out evenly
172
along the eastern border of the Reaches, including the largest
communitythe small city of Varna. In the great wood,
the druid sects and shifters typically live in small communities
that are roughly equivalent to thorps and hamlets.
Greenheart (Small Town, 1,260): Tucked deep in
the Towering Wood, Greenheart is home to the Wardens
of the Wood. The community takes its name from a sacred
grove in the center of the village, a manifest zone linked
to Lamannia, the Twilight Forest (see page 97). The
Great Druid Oalian (N awakened greatpine, druid 20)
spends his days in the grove; he speaks to visitors but
rarely moves. Aspirants who wish to learn the ways of the
Wardens of the Wood come to Greenheart for training in
the druidic mysteries. The community hovers at around
a thousand residents for most of the yearstudents and
preceptors, the guards and attendants of the Great Druid's
grove, the elder druids who coordinate the actions of the
Wardens across the region, and hunters and gatherers
who provide for the people of the village. However, the
population increases exponentially during conclaves or
important druid ceremonies, when members of all sects
converge on Greenheart; at these times the population
can increase by thousands, with druids and rangers
(many of them in animal form) camped out around
Greenheart in all directions while their animal companions
mingle freely.
Greenheart is a religious community. The druids give
shelter and sustenance to travelers who respect the land,
but the town has no marketplace or tavern. Some folk live
in simple buildings formed from shaped earth that has
been transmuted to stone; others live up among the trees
of the Towering Wood, on platforms created through the
use of wood shape.
All druid and ranger spells cast within Oalian's grove
are extended.
Varna (Small City, 8,000): While Greenheart is
the spiritual capital of the Eldeen Reaches, Varna is its
largest city and the center for trade and contact with the
rest of Caeros. Varna, the greatest stronghold of House
Vernalis, contains ranches and training facilities for the
dozens of different types of creatures that Vernalis deals in.
It's a popular joke that the stables here are finer than the
houses, and there's some truth to this, even when applied
to the quarters of Dalin d'Vernalis (CG male human, expert
8), the house patriarcha shrewd, hands-on breeder with
an uncanny empathy for, and knowledge of how to handle,
both animals and people. If an adventurer seeks a topgrade
magebred warhorse or a pegasus to serve as a mount,
Varna is the place to go.
Most of the eldermarked houses have a presence in
Varna. A thriving black market for goods that poachers
have acquired from the great wood also operates within
the city; the Wardens take action against anyone found
in possession of such material (including items such as
unicorn horns or displacer beast pelts). While Varna
focuses on animal husbandry, the architecture and tone
173
of the city matches its counterparts in Aundair; even
in the bitter final days of the war, House Vernalis managed
to remain on good terms with Aundair (thanks in
no small part to the patriarch's brother having married
the Aundair queen). One of the notable features of the
city is Hunter's Grove, an enormous temple dedicated
to the Sovereign Lord Balinor, the patron deity of
House Vernalis.
Cree (Small Town, 1,000): The small town of Cree,
located on the shore of Lake Galifar, doubles as both a
farming and fishing community. Farms spread out to the
west and north, while fishing vessels ply their trade on the
crystal-blue waters of Lake Galifar. Boats from Gree can be
seen all across the lake, and its crews are among the bravest
sailors operating on these waters. While boats from the
other coastal towns prefer to sail along the shore, Cree's
fishing boats often cut across the lake, showing little fear
of the deepest reaches of the waterway.
One such brave sailor is Captain Notak Ninefinger
(CG male human, expert 6) who commands the vessel
Smooth Sailing. When Notak and his crew aren't engaged in
fishing, they can be hired to transport passengers and
cargo across the lake. As such, this Gree vessel can often
be seen in the ports all along the Lake Galifar shore, in
the Eldeen Reaches, Aundair, and Breland.
Wolf's Paw (TKorp, 75): The farming community
of Wolf's Paw, located in the central region of the northeastern
farmland, is one of the relatively few permanent
shifter communities in the Reaches. Most shifters either
live among the common races in their communities or
wander as part of a nomadic tribe that operates more like
a wolf pack than the nomads of the Talenta Plains. Those
of Wolf s Paw, however, saw an advantage to settling down
and claiming a piece of land for their own.
The leader of this shifter farming community is Slara
(NG female shifter, ranger 4), who convinced her pack
to stop wandering and work the land. Spiritual guidance
comes from Lorgan (LN male shifter, druid 2), whose ties
to the Wardens of the Wood have proved beneficial to the
community on more than one occasion.
In addition to farming, the townsfolk make periodic
trips into the forest near Havenglen to hunt for meat. These
hunts have an almost religious significance for the community,
and many traditions and ceremonies dating back
to their time as a nomadic pack find outlets in the forest.
The community also possesses a secret that no one outside
its ranks is aware of. Slara's grandsire, the ancient Thorntuft,
is actually a werewolf in hiding. A survivor of the
Silver Flame inquisitions, Thorntuft rarely ventures far
from Slara's homestead. He is content to sit in the sun and
enjoy his role as historian and advisor to the community.
Only occasionally does he desire to shift into hybrid or
wolf form and do a little hunting of his ownalways being
careful not to spread the curse during his hunts.
IMPORTANT SITES
Magic and mystery fill the Eldeen Reaches. The spirits of
nature, strong and ever-present in the Reaches, express
themsmen in many forms. The land also bears the marks
of the ancient war against the daelkyr, blighted regions that
spawn aberrations and other twisted creatures. The Gatekeepers
guard portals to Belmead and maintain the ancient
wards that hold the daelkyr and other fiends in check. The
land has much to offer, if one is willing to explore the deep
forest with an open mind and a brave heart.
The Gloaming: Deep in the great forest, unlucky
travelers sometimes stumble across an area where the
wood has twisted in upon itself. Lush vegetation gives
way to skeletal trunks choked with poisonous vines and
teeming with vermin. In addition to these physical signs
of corruption, the region contains a manifest zone linked
to Mabar, the Endless Night (see page 97). This manifest
zone amplifies negative energy. Over the last century, the
borders of the Gloaming have been slowly expanding.
The Gloaming is a haven for deadly plants, monstrous
vermin, and unnaturally intelligent insect swarms. Some
say that it is the work of the daelkyr, while the Children of
Winter believe it is a sign of things to come and consider
this a holy place.
Currently the Gloaming covers an area approximately
fifteen miles across. It is divided into five-milewide
rings, with the effects of the zone becoming stronger
the deeper toward the center one travels. While in the
outer ring, characters receive a 2 penalty on any saving
throw to resist the effects of disease or poison (including
a contagion or poison spell). In the middle ring, all spells
that use negative energy (including inflict spells) are maximized,
while spells that use positive energy are impeded.
In the innermost ring, the effective caster level of any spell
that uses negative energy is raised by 4. All of these effects
are cumulative.
The Guardian Trees: The Eldeen Reaches are
preternaturally fertile. In the center of the great forest,
deep within the Towering Wood, a region exists where
growth is truly phenomenal. This is the realm of the
Guardian Trees. The Guardian Trees dwarf the greatest
redwoods, and a wide variety of dire animals inhabit the
realm beneath the dizzying heights of the canopy. The
Guardian Trees extend for thirty miles in all directions
and shelter a number of druid and shifter communities,
including Greenheart.
Some say that the Guardian Trees are not only awakened
like the Great Druid Oalian but were once the elder druids
of the Age of Monsters. Others believe that the place and
its trees are simply ancient growths from the time before
time began, when the world was different and new. Whatever
the truth (and no one has ever admitted to having
a conversation with any of these trees), the place teems
with old magic and ancient life. In addition to the Great
Druid's grove in Greenheart, a number of other holy sites
exist among the Guardian Trees, and many druids and
rangers seek solace and meditate within the shelter of these
giant trees.
The Twilight Demesne: Fey live throughout the
Eldeen Reaches. Dryads watch from the trees and fossergrims
(see Fiend Folio) govern the falls; pixies dance in
the moonlight, and satyrs roam the forest floor. Chaotic
and capricious, they rarely congregate in large numbers,
except in the Twilight Demesne. Every tale about this place
of legend puts it deep in the western forest, between the
174
Byeshk Mountains to the south and the Shadowcrags to
the north. The path that leads to the place, however, is
different in every story and legend. Some tales speak of
walls of thorns that shift with the whim of the fey. Others
describe towers of silver and crystal that only appear when
a particular song or dance is performed. Every tale about
the Demesne describes a different method for reaching
the place. The Greensingers often exchange songs and
stories with the fey of the court, and those who wish to
find the fey of the Demesne generally seek out this druid
sect for assistance.
The Demesne is the realm of the fey court. This
"court" isn't so much the rulers of the fey but an ongoing
gathering and party that consists of sprites, satyrs,
feytouched, and all manner of half-fey creatures. In
tales, heroes have obtained gifts of fantastic magic by
visiting the court. But the fey are mischievous. A trip to
the Twilight Demesne can hold many hidden dangers,
and a gift from the fey court may be less (or more) than
it seems.
The entire western region of the Towering Wood is a
manifest zone always considered to be coterminous with
Thelanis, making The Twilight Demesne a crossroads
between the mortal world and the Faerie Court. The fey
slip between the worlds, and they may pull along unwary
mortals when they make the trip.
ADVENTURING IN
THE ELDEEN REACHES
The northeastern plains of the Eldeen Reaches generally
make for a safe and pleasant place to travel. House
Oraite has established trade roads connecting most of the
major agricultural communities, and travelers can get
from place to place with little difficulty. The Wardens
of the Wood track down any dangerous beasts that leave
the great forest, and bandits operating in the open are
quickly dealt with.
Within the great forest of the Towering Wood, however,
things are different. Few paths exist, and fewer still
are well maintained. The druids and shifters who live in
the woods leave few marks of their passage. Many deadly
creatures inhabit the forest, from dire and horrid animals
to magical beasts and aberrations. In addition, the
Ashbound, the Children of Winter, and shifter tribes
can also pose a threat to explorers and travelers. Druids,
especially the Gatekeepers, usually fight any aberrations
they encounter, but other creatures are left alone. In
fact, the Wardens seek to protect magical beasts of the
forest from poachers who hunt them for the magical
and alchemical properties their pelts, horns, and other
organs possess.
A variety of forces could draw adventurers to the
Eldeen Reaches. The Twilight Demesne, the Gatekeepers,
and the Great Druid all hold knowledge and artifacts that
heroes may need. The Order of the Emerald Claw (see
page 244) may try to tap into the power of the Gloaming,
or one of the Cults of the Dragon Below could threaten
Caeros from the depths of the forest. Adventurers
traveling in the region could be caught up in tension
between the druid sects and House Vernalis, or friction
between the Reaches and the rulers of Aundair could
draw the attention of adventurers. Breland or Aundair
might want to send spies to report on the state of affairs
in the Reaches, or adventurers could be drafted to deal
with marauders who occasionally emerge from the deep
woods to attack Brelish and Aundairian communities
before disappearing back across the border. There's no
end of trouble, mystery, and adventure awaiting in the
Eldeen Reaches.
ADVENTURE IDEAS
A scholar from the Arcane Congress hires adventurers
to aid in an expedition to locate and explore an
ancient ruin in the heart of the great forest. Should they
help her remove a seal hidden in the ruins that might
unleash a great power from the depths of Belmead?
One hundred years ago a champion of the Silver
Flame disappeared into the Twilight Demesne. The Church
believes that he was seduced and trapped by the fey, and
now that the Last War has ended they want to rescue the
lost hero. In fact, the paladin saved the fey from a terrible
spirit that had seized control of the court, and his
memory is revered. The lords of the court still hold the
armor and weapons of the noble knight. If a new champion
of the Flame finds the court and passes the tests
imposed by the fey, she may receive the relics of the fallen
hero as a reward.
The Wardens of the Wood request the help of visiting
adventurers. In the northern reaches of the Towering
Wood, the Order of the Emerald Claw has established a
stronghold from which to launch missions into the rest
of the region. The stronghold must be breached, and the
Emerald Claw agents must be dispatched before they can
upset the balance of the region.
A Dragon Below cultist has entered the Gloaming to
engage in an arcane experiment meant to fill him with the
power of Mabar itself. Can a group of brave adventurers
navigate the dangers of the Gloaming and its Children of
Winter protectors in time to stop this experiment from
reaching its conclusion? If not, will they possess the power
to stop a cultist who wields the energy of the Endless Night
the way a fighter wields a sword?
Something among the Guardian Trees has turned
a horrid boar toward Greenheart, and every day more
horrid creatures appear to threaten the community and
the Great Druid's grove. The Wardens of the Wood, at
the behest of the Great Druid, call on the adventurers to
assist them in dealing with the monsters and discovering
the source of their agitation. Conversely, if the adventuring
party includes a druid or ranger, that character could
hear the call for help the Great Druid broadcasts to those
in the area.
House Vernalis has been suffering acts of terrorism
and sabotage from the Ashbound, and the sect seems
to have increased its efforts against the eldermarked
house in recent weeks. The house sends for adventurers
willing to protect its interests and find a way to reduce
the number of attacks coming from the Ashbound and
their agents.