I
n an Eberron campaign, heroes may have to contend
with intrigue and treachery as often as with
the claws and fangs of monsters. The descriptions
that follow represent only a few of the many
cults and cabals that operate across Khorvaire
and beyond. Some can be used as patrons for adventurers,
others as opponents. More often, any of these can be allies
one day, and competitors and opponents the next.
THE AURUM
The Aurum, a shadowy alliance of some of the wealthiest
citizens of Khorvaire, uses the power of gold and platinum
to increase its influence across the continent. From
its headquarters in Krona Peak in the Mror Holds, this
organization espouses the lawful evil point of view and
keeps its true intentions highly secret.
The Aurum was born in the Mror Holds. Even before
the Last War and the dwarves' declaration of independence,
various members of the powerful clans had joined
together in a secret fraternity designed to increase the
wealth and power of its members. With the collapse of
Galifar and the rise of the dwarf nation, the members
of the Aurum began to look beyond the Ironroot Mountains.
Guildmasters, crime lords, merchant princes,
nobles, and members of dragonmarked houses, among
others, joined the secret society, and slowly it became
more than a simple fraternity. Between the influx of new
blood and the devastation of the Last War came a rush of
new ideas, which resulted in a new sense of purpose for
the cabal.
The Aurum hides its true activities from the world.
It claims to be an innocent society for wealthy students
of history; many of its members have impressive personal
collections of rare historical tomes and relics of
ancient civilizations. Many members of the Aurum
truly are interested in the past, because they intend
to shape the future.
The organization is divided into four levels, called
concords—copper, silver, gold, and platinum. Higher
rank provides a member with greater access to the
resources of the Aurum and a greater voice in society
meetings. Rank is based both on personal influence
and services provided to the group. A powerful heir of
a dragonmarked house joins the Gold Concord, while
a minor guildmaster starts in the Copper Concord.
In time, any member has the chance to advance to the
Platinum Concord.
Most members believe that the Platinum Concord
manages the affairs of the Aurum, but the true masterminds
of the conspiracy form an inner circle known
as the Shadow Cabinet. The Shadow Cabinet exists outside
the structure of the concords and works to manipulate
the nations of Khorvaire. Antus ir'Soldorak (LE
male dwarf, aristocrat 4/rogue 6) chairs the Shadow
Cabinet and also serves as the chancellor of the
Platinum Concord.
The Aurum acts as a resource as opposed to an active
force. Its members share knowledge to improve their personal
fortunes or to defeat common rivals. The hidden
ministers of the Shadow Cabinet, however, believe that
the aristocracy has no place running society. Kings and
queens make excellent figureheads, but no individual
noble has the wisdom required to rule efficiently. The Last
War proves this assertion, and the leaders of the Aurum
intend to see to it that any future wars serve their own
interests. To this end, they have been recruiting agents
throughout the nations and the dragonmarked houses,
targeting ambitious people with some amount of power
and influence.
Aurum Concordians wear a plain ring on each
finger—eight in all. Members of the Copper Concord wear
copper rings, members of the Silver Concord wear silver
rings, and so on. More a symbol of status than a precious
bauble, each ring has the same value as 10 coins fashioned
from the same kind of metal.

THE BLOOD OF VOL
On the surface, the Blood of Vol appears to be an
ancient religion devoted to the figurative and literal
meaning of blood—the mysteries of heredity, death,
and the undead. It consists of small groups of followers
scattered across Khorvaire who know nothing about the
true motives and goals behind the religion; they simply
believe that blood is the source of life and that undeath
is a path to divinity.
Beneath the surface, the true horror of the Blood of
Vol plots and schemes. The true followers (as opposed
to the common folk who unknowingly help hide the
deceptions) revere the ancient lich Vol (NE lich [elf
half-dragon], wizard 16), self-proclaimed Queen of the
Dead. The Blood of Vol flows into the distant past, to
Aerenal and Xen'drik, the continent of secrets. A powerful
necromancer, Vol seeks to manipulate bloodlines and
revive the power of long-forgotten House Vol—the Mark
of Death.
Vol nurtures her schemes of conquest
and revenge in the halls of Illmarrow
Castle, in the frozen north of the
Lhazaar islands. In Karrnath, her
priests control the Crimson Monastery
in Atur, the City of Night. Other strongholds,
temples, and secret shrines are
scattered throughout the continent,
and one hides even in the ancient elf
homeland of Aerenal.
Twenty-six hundred years ago, Vol
was the heir to the fortunes of House
Vol, whose members carried the Mark of
Death. Her family attempted to mix elf and
dragon blood to put an end to the wars that
rocked both civilizations. Erandis d'Vol was
the result of these experiments, a half-dragon
created from the arcane union of her elf mother
and green dragon father. She was hidden and
raised in secret as both House Vol and the
green dragon sought to find a peaceful end to
the conflict. However, the revelation of Erandis's existence
had the opposite effect: Elf and dragon alike saw
the mixing of the species as an abomination. Finally,
the two sides came together on one issue—half-dragons
and the House of Vol had to be destroyed.
As the Vol family was slaughtered, the matriarch used
her powers over death to make sure her beloved daughter
survived. Erandis became a lich, and now remains as
the single memory of her family's ancient glory. She still
bears the dragonmark of Vol upon her withered flesh,
but without life within her, the mark is just a decoration;
Symbol of the
Blood of Vol
she has not been able to invoke its power since the day she
became an undead creature.
Vol's plans have multiple facets and layers. She uses
her loyal followers to gather information throughout the
land, to whisper suggestions in the highest halls of government,
and to watch for any sign that her family mark still
flows through elf blood. She plots revenge against both
the elves of Aerenal and the dragons of Argonnessen. She
seeks to revive her family mark and take her place as a true
god of Eberron.
Vol's duped followers include many members of the
common races from all walks of life. Her true followers
include both living creatures and the sentient undead, and
many of her most trusted priests are vampires, mummies,
and liches willing to bow down before her.
To further her plans, Vol created the Order of the
Emerald Claw. Few know of the order's connection to the
Blood of Vol, seeing it simply as a fanatical Karrnathi
terrorist group.

THE CHAMBER
The Chamber consists of dragons from Argonnessen
who want to take a more active role in the world, and
their servants, many of whom don't realize they work for
dragons. This secret organization watches for the emergence
of dragonmarks on the lesser races, and believes
that the draconic Prophecy should not just be studied and
contemplated, but actively assisted so that its verses come
to pass sooner rather than later.
The Chamber was formed by younger Argonnessen
dragons who believed that the Prophecy demanded their
participation in the world beyond their continent. Older
dragons reluctantly allow the Chamber to exist, so long as it
keeps a low profile and doesn't do anything to endanger the
Prophecy or the dragons themselves. To this end, dragons
belonging to the Chamber either watch the activities of the
lesser races from afar or use magical means to disguise their
true nature when they move about in the world of humans.
The Chamber has little structure or organization.
Members share knowledge as warranted, even keeping
dragons that aren't part of the group informed about their
findings and observations. Some dragons of the Chamber
spend decades disguised as members of the lesser races,
serving as advisors to kings or silent observers. Only when
a Chamber member reveals his true nature do the leaders
of Argonnessen take an interest in their group's activities,
and if any dragon is believed to threaten the entire community,
it is dealt with harshly.
Members of the Chamber or its agents among the
lesser races may approach adventurers to help in some
long-ranging scheme or plan to propel the Prophecy forward.
Most often, the adventurers never realize that their
patron in such situations is a dragon.

CHURCH OF THE
SILVER FLAME
Symbol of the Church
of the Silver Flame
The priests and paladins of the Silver Flame have battled
the forces of darkness for hundreds of years. A relatively
young religion, the Church of the Silver Flame
has found staunch support across Khorvaire, especially
in the nation of Thrane. This lawful good organization
is based in the city of Flamekeep, under the leadership
of Jaela Daran, the Keeper of the Flame. Members of
the Church carry a silver arrowhead engraved with a
stylized flame.
The Church of the Silver Flame was born in 299
YK, when the paladin Tira Miron and a couatl
merged with a silvery pillar of fire to stop a demon
from escaping Khyber. Tira now acts as the Voice
of the Silver Flame, serving as an intermediary
between the common races and the divine. The
current Keeper of the Flame, eleven-year-old
Jaela Daran, receives the powers and abilities
of an 18th-level cleric as long as she is within
the confines of the city of Flamekeep, where
the Silver Flame constantly burns. Beyond the
proximity of the pillar of fire, she must rely on
her own skills as a 3rd-level cleric.
Over the centuries the Church of the Silver Flame
has spread across Khorvaire. Its followers are
engaged in a never-ending struggle against
the forces of evil. They have fought demons,
hunted lycanthropes almost to extinction,
and battled all manner of monsters. Corruption within
the ranks, however, continues to be the organization's
most relentless foe.
The Keeper of the Flame sits on the spiritual and
temporal thrones of the church and nation. The next
level in church hierarchy is the Council of Cardinals,
229
which oversees the operations of both church and state.
Church ministers provide spiritual guidance to the
faithful, both in Thrane and abroad, battling evil by
nurturing good.
Church templars consist of warriors, paladins,
clerics, and exorcists trained to meet evil head-on with
sword, mace, and spell. The order's cardinal sits on the
Council of Cardinals, and his templars protect Thrane,
the churches, and religious holdings throughout Khorvaire.
The third order within the Silver Flame, the friars,
provides missionaries for the church. Friars devoted to
the Silver Flame spread the faith beyond Thrane's borders
with zeal.
While not a separate order, a small portion of the
faithful believes in the Pure Flame. These fervent Flamers,
called Puritans, interpret every utterence of the Voice of
the Flame literally. In the past, the Puritans helped initiate
the inquisition against lycanthropes and inspired
crusades of all types. Today, they remain a vocal group
within the church.
The Church of the Silver Flame seeks to purify the
world. It wages war against supernatural evil; members
of the church templars roam the land fighting fiends,
undead, and magical beasts. The church also seeks to fight
corruption, greed, and other human evils, and through
these acts of faith kept the Last War raging on. The average
faithful is not expected to fight zombies and ghouls,
but he is expected to live a noble life and to encourage
others to do the same. The church teaches that those who
purify their spirits in this life join with the Silver Flame
after death, strengthening the fires that bind the forces
of evil within Khyber. Sadly, church clergy and members
don't always live up to the noble standards embodied by
the Silver Flame.
The greatest enemy of the Silver Flame is the Lords
of Dust. The Lords of Dust rarely move openly, but over
the centuries there have been many clashes between the
agents of the Flame and the fiends.

CULTS OF THE
DRAGON BELOW
Since the dawn of civilization—human or otherwise—there
have been those who revered the Dragon Below, seeking to
placate the forces of darkness through sacrifice and devotion.
As some worship the light, these embrace the dark.
Their goals are many and varied. Some seek to release
the daelkyr or to call up other dark forces from Khyber.
Others hope to buy passage to a promised land beneath the
surface of Khorvaire through blood sacrifice. Regardless
of their beliefs, the Cults of the Dragon Below are often
insane and always dangerous.
The Cults of the Dragon Below are strongest in the
Shadow Marches. The war against the daelkyr left deep
scars on the psyche of the inhabitants of this region.
Today, many of the prominent clans are devoted to the
shapers of flesh, and secretly work with powerful aberrations.
As befits the servants of madness, the cults have
no ties to one another and often work at cross-purposes;
all they have in common are their dreams of a world consumed
by darkness and evil.
Beyond the Shadow Marches, the cults follow many
paths. Some listen to the mad whispers of the daelkyr,
others revere the bound rakshasa rajahs, while a few
directly worship the progenitor wyrm Khyber as the
source of these lesser evils. Typically, the organization of
these cults is far less formal than that of the established
sects of the Shadow Marches. Usually a lone
evangelist gathers a group of followers with
promises of power or pure charisma. Cults
may appear among the underclasses or the
aristocracy. Most cults operate in secret,
and members lead perfectly acceptable
lives in the light while feeding their vile
devotions once darkness falls.
Aberrations are often attached to
cults, since the cultists typically consider
them to be beautiful and holy
creatures. Some cults raise gibbering
mouthers. Dolgrims or chokers may be
of the sent to assist a cult, while a dolgaunt,
Below beholder, or mind flayer may take
charge of a particular cult. Such a powerful
aberration may be acting on behalf of one of the
daelkyr or, in the case of an illithid or beholder, it may
have its own agenda. Cultists who serve the daelkyr faithfully
may obtain symbionts (see page 298) from the flesh
230
shapers; these living weapons become treasured heirlooms
of the cult, and are passed down from priest to priest.
Some Khyber cults seek power and may even have a
vaguely rational plan for acquiring it, but most are driven
by madness. Regardless of how sane or structured they may
seem on the surface, the vast majority of cultists are fundamentally
unstable. Virtually all cultists have no regard for
life. Most consider themselves to be the chosen children
of the Dragon Below, and the lives of the creatures around
them are no more meaningful than those of insects.

