THE LIBRARY
OF KORRANBERG
Located in Zilargo's southeasternmost port city, the
Library of Korranberg is the greatest repository of
general knowledge in Khorvaire. In addition to serving
as a resource for scholars and explorers, the library
often funds expeditions to study ancient cultures or
unexplored lands.
The gnomes of Zilargo have an unparalleled thirst
for knowledge; this inquisitive spirit gave birth to the
Library of Korranberg. A loremaster of the powerful
Korran family became obsessed with the theory that
the deities of the Sovereign Host were in fact ascended
dragons. This gnome, Dorius Alyre ir'Korran, swore
that he would amass enough knowledge and information
to surpass even the Sovereign Lord Aureon so that he
could ascend and take the god's place. The Korran family
invested considerable wealth in Dorius's obsession; even
those who didn't believe his theories of divinity were
intrigued by the idea of a vast vault for knowledge. In time,
Dorius died, but his library remained. As the centuries
passed, it continued to grow and expand. With the rise of
the kingdom of Galifar, gentry and aristocrats from across
Khorvaire came to study at the colleges connected to it.
Today, the Library of Korranberg plays a significant role
in the economy of Khorvaire. It funds many expeditions
to further the search for knowledge, and can be a valuable
patron for adventurers.
The citizens of Korranberg take great pride in
their library. Citizens of the city may attend the colleges
without charge, and every citizen must devote four years
of service to the Library. This service is considered an
act of patriotism and an educational experience. Many
choose to extend this period of service, accepting posts
as lecturers, researchers, administrators, and other
important roles.
Each of the library's eight colleges seeks to advance
a particular field of study. Together, the colleges
maintain the archives—vast vaults containing knowledge
accumulated over three millennia. The doyens
of each college serve on a central council that manages
the affairs of the library. This council is run by
an appointed member of the Korran family, descended
from the founders of the library. Like all politics in
Zilargo, positions in the library involve intrigue, blackmail,
and scheming. The current high councilor, Alina
Alrene ir'Korran (LE female gnome, aristocrat 5/bard
2), is a cunning woman who has had to fight off many
competitors within her own house to maintain her
status and position.
The library is based in Korranberg, but it keeps safe
houses in the capital cities of every nation in Khorvaire.
These offices provide shelter for library research teams.
While the library does not focus on magic as much as the
Twelve or the Arcane Congress, it has had centuries to
fill its vaults. The restricted archives and secret vaults are
heavily defended and shielded against scrying and other
forms of spying.
The library appears larger on the inside than from
the outside—and from the outside, it looks massive. When
a researcher reserves time at the library, a clerk provides
a catalog stone—an orange-colored crystal keyed to the
topics the researcher wishes to study. A private study
cell is provided, which initially looks like a small pool
of light in a vast, open darkness located somewhere in
the library's extradimensional space. Within the pool of
light, a desk, chair, work table, and narrow pedestal are
placed for the researcher's use, along with quills, ink,
parchment, and sealing wax. When the catalog stone is
placed atop the pedestal, alcoves formed of shelves full of
books and scrolls rush out of the darkness to create the
walls of the study cell. When the researcher completes
his work, removing the stone from the pedestal causes
the shelves to fall away so that the researcher can exit the
study cell.