ORDER OF THE
EMERALD CLAW
The reputation of the knightly Order of the Emerald
Claw has gone from one extreme to the other. When it was
established, the order was considered the ultimate expression
of Karrnathi patriotism. Today, it has been outlawed
and is seen as a terrorist organization working at crosspurposes
to the legitimate government of the nation. The
secret truth beyond the origin of the order and the evil it
serves is terrifying.
On the surface, the Order of the Emerald Claw
appears to consist of a small number of fanatics dedicated
to the military superiority of a Karrnath that doesn't want
their devotion. In reality, the order has no interest in
promoting or elevating Karrnath. Its true master, hidden
to all but the top leaders within the organization, is Vol,
the self-styled Queen of the Dead.
This seemingly small group is like an iceberg; the tip
that rises above the surface is nothing compared to the
mountain of ice hidden beneath the waves. The Order
supports a vast network whose tendrils wind through all
levels of Khorvairian society. It has eyes and ears in the
Sharn, the City of Towers, is the
home of Morgrave University
.% -v \
halls of government, churches, dragonmarked houses, and
private institutions. Some of its agents never reveal their
true nature; others appear proudly in the knightly garb of
the order.
Vol uses the Order of the Emerald Claw to incite
fear and terror, to cast suspicion on the actions of Karrnath
and its leaders, to foment unrest, and to perform
military missions that go beyond the capabilities of her
followers within the Blood of Vol. Knights of the order
scour the world for relics and artifacts of powerful magic,
and aren't above stealing arcane research from wizards
and artificers to churn out new magic weapons for the
order or for Vol.
The garb worn by the knights of the order includes
a distinctive helmet with a half faceplate, a tabard with a
claw insignia over chainmail, and a powerful flail.