THE WAYFINDER
FOUNDATION
In his youth, Lord Boroman ir'Dayne was a great hunter
and explorer. He led the only expedition ever to reach
the Frostfell and return to tell the tale. He wrestled
ogres in Droaam, fought chuuls in the Shadow Marches,
and was the first halfling to travel to Xen'drik and
return. Dayne amassed a fortune in his day, but during
his final expedition to Xen'drik he contracted a slow,
wasting curse that no magic has been able to reverse.
He has a few years of life left, and while he no longer
has the strength to explore on his own, he still wants
to unlock the mysteries of the unknown. To this end,
he dedicated his fortune to establishing the Wayfinder
Foundation—a guild for adventurers and explorers that
funds dangerous expeditions to exotic locales, as well as
giving bold adventurers a place to display their trophies
and tell tall tales.
The Wayfinder Foundation is an exclusive organization.
Membership is by invitation only, and offers are
extended only to renowned adventurers and explorers.
The Wayfinder Conclave manages the affairs of the
Foundation. The conclave meets in Aundair, and all decisions
are resolved by a majority vote. As long as he still
lives, Lord Boroman ir'Dayne (NG male halfling, rogue
6/extreme explorer 4) has the final say on all expenditures
of foundation funds, even overriding decisions of
the conclave. Despite his skills, Dayne has been crippled
by the wasting curse and rarely leaves the foundation's
enclave in Fairhaven.
Boroman ir'Dayne is a true philanthropist; he wishes
to have his name attached to the great adventures of the
future, since he himself can no longer participate in
the adventures of the present. His one ulterior motive
is the hope that an explorer may discover a cure for the
strange wasting curse that is slowly sapping his life. Of
course, many of the members of the Foundation are more
interested in personal wealth or glory than in increasing
the reputation of the Wayfinders or pursuing scholarly
exploration. The Wayfinder Foundation is very much an
alliance of individuals, and each Wayfinder has a distinctly
different personality.