The plane of Dal Quor is home to a host of creatures
called the quori—living embodiments of dream and
nightmare. Quori are the masters of the Dreaming Dark
and survive on the Material Plane by inhabiting specially
prepared human vessels, called the Inspired. The tsucora
quori (presented below) is one of the more common
kinds of quori; additional kinds may appear in future
Eberron products

MAGEBRED ANIMAL
The widespread use of magic on Eberron has led to the
development of magical enhancements to animal breeding,
particularly within House Vadalis. Some experiments in
that direction have created new creatures that are actually
magical beasts, with unusual intelligence and supernatural
or spell-like abilities. In general, however, the aim of these
breeding programs is simply to create better animals—ones
that are more suited for use in the work of daily life. These
magically enhanced animals are called magebred.
A magebred animal looks essentially like a fine specimen
of its kind. Sometimes one may display unusual coloration,
including colors rarely found in nature. Its appearance is
always slightly exaggerated, emphasizing the feature for
which it was bred: A horse magebred for pulling loads has
exceptionally large shoulder muscles, for example, while a
dog magebred for tracking has a particularly long nose.

SYMBIONT
Symbionts are complete creatures, generally capable of surviving
apart from a host creature for at least some length of
time. They are generally Tiny or smaller, and physically very
weak on their own. They survive by joining with a host creature,
usually granting the host certain benefits in exchange
for the protection afforded by a larger body. This symbiotic
relationship usually benefits both parties (though in some
cases the symbiont might better be described as a parasite).
A symbiont occupies part of the host creature's body—
sometimes, but not always, limiting the number of magic
items the host can use in the same way as a magic item does.
Like intelligent magic items, symbionts have Ego scores,
which reflect their strength of will and drive for power.
Symbionts with high Ego scores, like magic items of similar
sort, can sometimes take control of their host creatures.
The Ego score of a symbiont is determined in the same
way as that of an intelligent magic item, and listed with
each symbionts entry in the Abilities line. Add the
symbiont's Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma
bonuses (if any) to determine its base Ego score.
Add 1 for each special quality and 2 for
\T each special attack. Add 4 if the symbiont
is an outsider. For example, a living
breastplate has a base Ego score of 4 (2 from its
15 Wisdom and 2 from its 14 Charisma), plus 1
for its damage reduction special quality, 1 for
its enhance Constitution special quality, 1 for
its light fortification special quality, 1 for its
ability to stabilizehost, and 1 for its telepathic
ability, for a total Ego of 9. Evil and orderly, it
pairs perfectly with the typical daelkyr.

A huge golem forged of composite materials swings a massive axe and maul
as it shambles forward.
Among the first warforged created during the Last War, titans
are a small step forward from massive, mindless war golems.
Warforged titans are not true living constructs like other
warforged; they are barely sentient, with just enough intelligence
to follow changing commands in the heat of battle.

