The portal opened onto a great stone staircase that descended even deeper
into the ruins buried beneath the secret continent ofXen'drik. Azjn stepped
forward, taking his place at the head of the marching order.
"Arejou sure there are artifacts waiting for us below ? " the warforged
asked Thondred, his artificer companion.
"As sure as lam that we survived the Chamber of a Thousand Perils,"
Thondred replied, replacing his wand into the brace at his side.
"I do not like it down here," Sarav the elf ranger said from behind
them. "I am not sure that any treasure is worth angering the ancient spirits
ofthisplace."
Azm shrugged. "I don't care who gets angry at me, as long as I can hit
something" Before Sarav or Thondred could resume their usual argument,
Azrn pounded down the stairs, his powerful limbs of obsidian and steel
striking each step like a hammer hitting an anvil. As much as he might try
to deny it, he was built for battle. It was in his blood, so to speak, though
Thondred would be quick to point out that a warforged didn't exactly have
blood. He rounded the curve of the stair and stopped, not quite sure what it
was that blocked his way. The creature reared back and screeched an angry
cry, its spiked tentacles slicing through the air like barbed whips. Azm flexed
his massive fingers, listening for the satisfyingpop of the joints that indicated
he was ready, and the battle began.
Crafted during the final years of the Last War by artificers
of House Cannith, Azm was commissioned by the Breland
militia. For a year, Azm fought alongside Brelish troops
and earned great distinction—at least, as great as any army
would award to a warforged.
After the war, the warforged went to Sharn in search
of his creator, the dwarf artificer Thondred. Thondred
gave Azm his name, and the two put their skills to use as
adventurers in the City of Towers. They eventually teamed
up with another pair of adventurers and formed an adventuring
company.
Thondred convinced the company that they could earn
a fortune by exploring the secret continent ofXen'drik—a
place where Thondred had spent a little time in the past
and always hoped to return to in search of knowledge he
could apply to his artificer experiments. Their exploits
in Xen'drik have brought Azm and his fellow adventurers
great wealth and more than a bit of notoriety.
Azm, now a 6th-level fighter, has learned that he
can embed magic items in his body. He has also discovered
ancient items in Xen'drik that seem designed to
attach to his immense frame, a discovery that suggests
that something like the modern warforged existed in
Xen'drik in the ancient past. Learning more about these
ancient constructs has become an obsession for the mighty
warforged fighter.