The kalashtar are a compound race: incorporeal entities
from the alien plane of Dal Quor, the Region of Dreams,
merged with human bodies and spirits to form a distinct
species. They were once a minority among the quori,
the native race of Dal Quor, hunted and persecuted
for their religious beliefs. Thousands of years after the
quori invaded Eberron and the connection between their
plane and the Material Plane was severed, the kalashtar
were the first of the quori to discover a means to reach the
Material Plane once more. Fleeing persecution, they transformed
their physical forms into psychic projections that
allowed them to enter the Material Plane and possess
willing humans. Today, new kalashtar are born,
not possessed; neither spirit nor human,
they are a new race that breeds true.
It took three hundred years for the
other quori to discover a similar means
to psychically project their spirits out of
Dal Quor and possess human bodies,
forming the Inspired (see page 290), while leaving their
own bodies behind—much as mortals project their minds
to Dal Quor when they dream. For fifteen hundred years
now, the Inspired in their vast kingdom of Riedra have
continued to persecute and oppress the kalashtar.
Personality: As a true hybrid of human hosts and
quori spirits, the kalashtar possess keen intellects but are
not ruled by logic. They seek the perfection of their minds
and spirits, often to the exclusion of any physical pursuits.
They are generally warm and compassionate, but their
manners and ways of thinking are alien to the native races
of Eberron. They are more interested in psionics than in
the magic that pervades Khorvaire, and often lace their
discourse with esoteric terms such as "matter," "kinetics,"
and "ectoplasm."
The kalashtar are outcasts from their home plane
and can never return there—not even in dream. The
combination of life in exile and a dreamless existence
makes the kalashtar slightly inclined toward madness, and
some have speculated that the kalashtar devote themselves
to psychic and physical discipline in order to keep
themselves safely sane.
Physical Description: Kalashtar appear very similar
to humans, but they have a grace and elegance that makes
them seem almost too beautiful. They are slightly taller
than the average human, and their faces have a slight
angularity that sets them apart from the human norm, but
these deviations only make them seem more attractive.
Relations: Kalashtar are born diplomats and relate
fairly well to individuals of all races—except, of course,
the Inspired. They relate best to humans, with whom they
share the greatest physical similarity, but some kalashtar
find themselves strongly drawn to other races instead.
They oppose the Inspired in all ways, both within Riedra
and beyond its borders, and likewise oppose any group or
force that corrupts or degrades mortal souls.
Alignment: Kalashtar are generally lawful good.
They combine a sense of self-discipline that borders on
the ascetic with a genuine concern for the welfare of all
living things, or at least their souls.
Kalashtar Lands: The kalashtar homeland is a
region of Sarlona called Adar, a land of forbidding mountains
and hidden fortresses in the southeastern portion
of the continent. Even in Adar their numbers are small,
and the number of kalashtar found in Khorvaire is much
smaller still. However, they can be found in many of the
largest human cities. The largest kalashtar population in
Khorvaire is in the city of Sharn.
Dragonmarks: Kalashtar never possess dragonmarks.
Religion: Kalashtar do not follow gods, but they
have their own religion, called the Path of Light. The
center of this belief system is a universal force of positive
energy the kalashtar call il-Yannah, or "the Great Light."
Through meditation and communion with this force, the
kalashtar seek to strengthen their bodies and minds for
the struggle against the forces of darkness that threaten
all life on Eberron. Though il-Yannah is not a deity, its
few clerics draw power from the Path of Light. A greater
number of devout followers of the Path are psions and
psychic warriors.
Language: Kalashtar speak Quor, the language of
the quori, and the common tongue of their homeland
(Common in Khorvaire, or Riedran in Adar). Quor is a
hissing, guttural tongue more suited to the alien forms
of the quori than their humanoid hosts. It has its own
written form, a flowing, elegant script with many circular
letters.
Names: Kalashtar names have much in common with
the name of their people: They are three to five syllables
long, with a combination of hard and hissing consonants.
Male names end with one of the masculine name suffixes
—harath, —khad, —melk, or —tash. Female names use the
feminine suffixes —kashtai, —shana, —tari, or —vakri.
Male Names: Halkhad, Kanatash, Lanamelk, Minharath,
Nevitash, Parmelk, Thakakhad, Thinharath.
Female Names: Ganitari, Khashana, Lakashtari,
Mevakri, Novakri, Panitari, Thakashtai, Thatari.
Adventurers: Every kalashtar enters adulthood
facing a fundamental choice: Try to live a normal life as a
persecuted exile in Adar, or take up a more active role in
combating the Inspired in the world. Not surprisingly,
many kalashtar choose the latter option and live a life at
least bordering on that of the adventurer. Most kalashtar
adventurers are motivated primarily by their hatred of
the Inspired, but a few—primarily those advanced along
the Path of Light—are driven by their compassion for all
living beings and their desire to fight darkness in whatever
form it takes.