Thiera strode across the skybridge with purpose and determination. She
and Kasha were getting close to discovering the identity of the enemy that
had destroyed their monastery, and the paladin couldn't wait to deliver the
justice of the Silver Flame.
The everbright lanterns that provided light to the far end of the bridge
suddenly went out, and the dark night of Sharn rushed in. Perhaps there was
nothing to fear, but Thiera had never heard of such a failure at this level of
the city. She drew her sword.
"No need for us to fight, paladin," said a high, heavily accented
voice from the darkness ahead. "Go back to jour superiors. Tell them
that we got what we were sent for, and no further harm will come to the
faith or the faithful."
Thiera strained to make out anything in the darkness ahead. She could
see a number of shapes, small in size, cloaked, with the legs and hoofed feet
of some kind of animal. Definitely not human. "Perhapsyou should return
with me and tell themj ourselves,"Thiera said, reaching out with her paladin
senses to detect evil among the small humanoids. She determined they
were not evil. Still, that didn't make them any less of a threat to her, not to
mention the damage and suffering they caused at the monastery.
"Alas," the high voice said, "that will not be possible. We have work to
do, and we'd prefer to do that work without a monk and a paladin trailing
around behind us. Ifyou do not heed my advice, paladin, I cannot be held
responsible foryour continued safety."
Thiera drew herself to her full height. She towered over the small
creatures. "The Silver Flame protects me," she replied.
The high-pitched voice laughed. "Spoken like a true believer. We have
our own faith, girl, and it is more ancient, more powerful thanjour silly
little fire."
39
Thiera set her jaw and raised her sword. "We'll see, defile
A native of Thrane, Thiera is a 2nd-level human paladin.
She left her home as soon as she swore her paladin's oath,
accepting a post as guard and champion of a small monastery
in northern Aundair.
During all the time the Last War raged across Khorvaire,
nothing ever threatened the secluded monastery.
Thiera's'life was filled with contemplation, much like
those of the monks she had sworn to protect. A few months
ago, however, an unknown enemy attacked and destroyed
the monastery. Thiera was severely wounded in the battle;
guilt consumes her over her failure to protect the monks
and the monastery.
As an act of penance, she now journeys with a monk
even younger than herself, seeking to determine who
attacked the monastery and why. Their quest has led them
as far as the city of Sharn, and along the way Thiera and
Kasha, the young monk, have become close friends.
Secure in her faith in the Silver Flame, Thiera's guilt
threatens to weaken her confidence in her own abilities.
She continually reassures Kasha of the Silver Flame's
beneficence and power, while secretly questioning her own
usefulness and purpose.