What was he doing here ? Sarav wondered as he nocked an arrow in his silver
bow. As an elf, and moreover as a ranger, he thrived in the great outdoors.
But here he was, following Thondred the artificer into another hole in the
ground in search of artifacts from a distant age.
More to the point, he had followed the dwarf to Xendrik, a land of
shadows and mysteries that Sarav believed had some connection to his elf
heritage. And for that reason, the prospect of finding any thing within these
ancient ruins terrifed him.
The elf let his arrow fly and it struck true, skewering the tentacled
monster that was even now grappling with the mighty warforged named
Azm. "A little help, artificer!" Sarav shouted as he fired more arrows into
the nightmarish creature.
Thondred shouted an answer, but his words were drowned out by
the squeals of the monster and Azrn's furious battling that, as usual,
was causing as much collateral damage as it was harming his opponent.
Sarav dodged a chunk of stone knocked loose as the warforged crashed
into the pillar around which the stone stairs turned. His leap to one side
put him directly in the path of the bolt of lightning that crackled from
Thondred's wand to strike the monster, and he had to leap again to avoid
the unleashed magic.
With a roar of pain and anger, the monster slipped from the stairs and
fell into the blackness beyond. Azm, still wrapped in the beast's barbed tentacles,
was pulled into the blackness alongwith it. "Arwon's beard, dwarf!"
Sarav spat. "Dojou always have to use a hammer when a needle would
do?" The elf rushed to the edge of the abyss and peered down, hoping his
friend was still in one piece.
A 6th-level elf ranger, Sarav wears leafweave armor, carries
a composite longbow with a shimmering silver bowstring,
and has a pair of short swords strapped to his thighs. He
grew up in the wilds of Aundair, near the Eldeen Reaches
border, where he learned the skills of the ranger.
He served briefly in the Last War as a scout for the
Aundairian forces, but he eventually lost his taste for
the conflict that had torn apart the great kingdom of
Galifar. He decided to get as far away from the front as
he could manage, and eventually he made his way to the
wondrous coastal city of Sharn. There, he joined forces
with a dwarf artificer and a warforged fighter. As their
fame grew, the adventurers earned enough money to fund
an expedition to the mysterious continent of Xendrik.
Though each of the company's members has something to
gain from such a journey, Sarav is worried that he might
also learn something terrible about his heritage on the
secret continent.