The lawful good deity called the Silver Flame is an abstract,
disembodied force closely associated with a once-human
woman named Tira Miron. Herself now immortal, Tira
(now known as the Voice of the Silver Flame) serves as
the intermediary between the holy Silver Flame and the
mortals who can never attain sufficient purity to communicate
with the Silver Flame directly. The Church of
the Silver Flame is dedicated to protecting the common
people against supernatural forces of evil, and thus it
attracts a great number of paladins to its cause. The
Silver Flame grants access to the domains of Exorcism,
Good, Law, and Protection. The deity's favored
weapon is the longbow, and archery is an important
THE SOVEREIGN HOST
The Sovereign Host consists of the deities
most commonly worshiped by the majority of
Khorvaire's population. Most people revere
the Host as a whole pantheon, offering
prayers to different deities in different situations.
Even clerics are often devoted to the
entire Host rather than to a specific patron
(see Following a Pantheon, page 35). Taken as
a whole, the pantheon is neutral good, and its
favored weapon is the longsword—the weapon of Symbol of the
its martial champion, Dol Dorn. Silver Flame
and the mother of the Fury (as a result of her rape at the
hands of her evil brother, according to the holy texts),
she oversees the domains of Good, Life, Plant, and
Weather. Her favored weapon is the morningstar.
Aureon
God of Law and Knowledge
A deity of lore and magic, Aureon is lawful
neutral. The patron of all arcane spellcasters,
as well as sages, librarians, and scribes, he often
appears as a gnome or human wizard in ancient
texts, and occasionally as a majestic blue dragon.
He is the brother of Onatar, the husband of
Boldrei, and strangely related to the Shadow.
Associated with the domains of Knowledge, Law,
and Magic, he favors the quarterstaff.
Arawai
God of Agriculture
A deity of fertility, plant life, and abundance, Arawai
is neutral good. She claims many druids and rangers
among her followers, as well as farmers, sailors, and any
who are significantly concerned with weather or fertility.
She is usually portrayed as a half-elf woman, sometimes
as a halfling or a human, and occasionally as a
bronze dragon. The sister of Balinor and the Devourer,
Balinor
God of Beasts and the Hunt
A neutral nature deity associated with hunting
and animal life, Balinor claims hunters, druids, barbarians,
and rangers among his followers, since he appears
as both a protector of nature and an exemplar of gently
taking what one needs for sustenance from nature's
bounty. Usually portrayed as a burly human, sometimes
as a crude but good-natured half-orc, and occasionally as
a stalking green dragon, he is brother to Arawai and the
Devourer. Associated with the domains of Air, Animal,
and Earth, he favors the battleaxe.
68
tradition within the church.
Boldrei
God of Community and Hearth
Boldrei, the lawful good deity of community,
is invoked as a protector of villages
and homes, to bless marriages, and to confirm
government appointments. Usually depicted
in ancient texts as a commoner of
any race, or sometimes as a copper
dragon brooding over a nest of eggs,
she is Aureon's wife. The domains
under her influence are Community, Good,
Law, and Protection. Her favored weapon is
the spear.
Dol Arrah
God of Honor and Sacrifice
Dol Arrah, the lawful good deity of honor- Symbol of the
able combat, self-sacrifice, and sunlight, mani- Sovereign Host
fests as a peacemaker, a careful planner, and a
strategist. She serves as the patron of paladins, generals,
and diplomats who fight their battles with words. In addition,
in her role as a sun god, she brings light to pierce
the darkest places of the world. She is commonly represented
as a human or half-elf knight shining with holy
radiance, and sometimes as a red dragon perched on a
cloud. Said to be the sister of Dol Dorn and the Mockery,
she is associated with the domains of Good, Law,
Sun, and War. Her favored weapon is the halberd.
Dol Dorn
God of Strength at Arms
The chaotic good deity of war, Dol Dorn appears as
a paragon of physical perfection who promotes bodily
strength as well as martial training. Most often depicted
as a heavily muscled human, sometimes as a dwarf or a
half-orc, and occasionally as a silver dragon, he
is said to be the brother of Dol Arrah and
the Mockery. Associated with the domains of
Chaos, Good, Strength, and War, he favors
the longsword.
Kol Korran
God of Trade and Wealth
Merchants, traders, and thieves
revere Kol Korran, the neutral deity of
trade and money—as might anyone who has
money or wants more. He is depicted as a
fat, cheerful human or dwarf in fine clothes.
A few ancient representations of him show a
white dragon lying on a bed of ice-blue gemstones.
Said to be the son of Olladra and Onatar
and the twin brother of the Keeper, he oversees
the domains of Charm, Commerce, and Travel.
His favored weapon is the mace.
elderly human, and occasionally as a black dragon. The
wife of Onatar and the mother of Kol Korran and
the Keeper, she is associated with the domains
of Feast, Good, Healing, and Luck. Her favored
weapon is the sickle.
Onatar
God of Artifice and the Forge
Onatar, the neutral good deity of
crafts, industry, and fire, is the patron
of artisans and artificers, smiths and smelters,
and all who make things. Dwarves in particular
revere him; he commonly appears as a dwarf
smith in holy texts, and sometimes as a brass dragon.
Wizards and psions who specialize in fire also place
their faith in him. The husband of Olladra and the
father of Kol Korran and the Keeper, he watches
over the domains of Artifice, Fire, and Good with
his favored weapon, the warhammer.
THE DARK SIX
In some ways, the Dark Six can be considered a part of
the pantheon of the Sovereign Host. It would be more
accurate, however, to say that these deities have been cast
out of the pantheon because of their evil ways. The Dark
Six are the patrons of criminals, outcasts, and villains, as
well as of various kinds of monsters. The holy texts show
them scheming against the Sovereign Host at every turn
for reasons that vary from deity to deity, and their dark
minions likewise plot against the followers of the Sovereign
Host.
The Devourer
The brother of Arawai and Balinor, the Devourer is neutral
evil. Stories say that he raped his sister Arawai and
thereby fathered the Fury. As lord of the deep waters and
master of maelstrom and reef, he represents all
the destructive power of nature. The sahuagin
worship him, while sailors fear him and
seek to appease him. He is portrayed as a
human or merfolk with seaweed in his
hair and beard, as a sahuagin, as an
enormous shark, or as a dragon turtle.
The domains associated with him are
Destruction, Evil, Water, and Weather.
His favored weapon is the trident.
Olladra
God of Feast and Good Fortune
Gamblers, rogues, bards, and hedonists invoke the
favor of Olladra, the neutral good deity of luck and plenty.
She is often depicted as a young halfling, sometimes as an
The Fury
The Fury is the neutral evil deity of
passion driven to madness. Revered by
those whose passion consumes their lives,
she is commonly portrayed as a half-elf,
sometimes as a drow, and occasionally as a
snakelike wyrm of Khyber. Associated with the
Symbol of domains of Evil, Madness, and Passion, she favors
the Devourer the rapier.
The Keeper
The neutral evil lord of death and decay, the Keeper is the
twin brother of Kol Korran. As Kol Korran represents
69
the acquisition of material wealth, the Keeper embodies
greed, hungry for the souls of the dead. He lurks in the
darkness, hoping to snatch wayward souls as they pass to
Dolurrh, the Realm of the Dead. He is portrayed as a gaunt
or grossly fat human, as a lich or a ghoul, or sometimes as
a skeletal dragon. Associated with the domains of Death,
Decay, and Evil, he favors the scythe.
The Mockery
The neutral evil deity of treachery over honor, the Mockery
betrayed his siblings, Dol Arrah and Dol Dorn, and
was subsequently flayed and banished from the Sovereign
Host. A skilled warrior, he claims evil fighters, rogues,
monks, and assassins among his followers. He is portrayed
as a ghastly human warrior with the skin stripped from
his body, cloaked in the skins of his enemies, and sometimes
as a half-fiend red dragon. He is associated with the
domains of Destruction, Evil, Trickery, and War, and the
kama is his weapon of choice.
The Shadow
The Shadow, the literal shadow of Aureon, gained a
life of its own as the price of his arcane mastery. Chaotic
evil, it devotes its energy to dark magic and the
corruption of nature. Many evil wizards and sorcerers
revere the Shadow, and many of the monsters of
Droaam invoke its name as well. It is usually depicted
as a shadow, but sometimes (particularly in Droaam) as
a shadow dragon. It is associated with the domains of
Chaos, Evil, Magic, and Shadow, and its favored weapon
is the quarterstaff.
A monk dedicated
to the Mockery
The Traveler
The most mysterious of the Dark Six, the Traveler is chaotic
neutral and seems to have no connection to the other
deities of the pantheon. A consummate shapeshifter, the
Traveler is said to walk the land in a thousand disguises.
A master of cunning and deception, it emphasizes subtlety
and careful planning. In some places the Traveler is known
as the Giver of Gifts, but proverbs warn, "Beware the gifts
of the Traveler." Revered by doppelgangers, lycanthropes,
and a number of changelings and shifters, it is associated
with the domains of Artifice, Chaos, Travel, and Trickery.
Its favored weapon is the scimitar.
THE BLOOD OF VOL
The Blood of Vol cult
attracts followers
fascinated by death
and the undead.
The most dedicated of
these revere an ancient
lich who calls herself
Vol, Queen of the
Dead. The Blood
flows into the distant
past, through
the earliest days of
human civilization on
Khorvaire, to the elf
kingdom of Aerenal,
and even to Xen'drik, the
continent of secrets. Vol and
her followers see undeath as
a path to divinity, invoking Symbol of the
negative energy in contrast Blood of Vol
to the positive energy that
powers the Undying Court. They are captivated by the
figurative and literal meaning of blood and by heredity,
seeking to manipulate bloodlines to accomplish some
fiendish purpose. Vol herself is a powerful necromancer
who has unlocked the secrets of undead creation. Clerics
of the Blood of Vol are lawful evil. They have access to the
domains of Death, Evil, Law, and Necromancer. The cult's
favored weapon is the dagger.
THE CULTS Of THE
DRAGON BELOW
The Cults of the Dragon
Below consist of a
diverse group of
fanatical sects
that revere the
power of the subterranean
realms.
Some of these cults
seek to draw Khyber, the
Dragon Below, up from the
depths of the world, while
others traffic with demons conjured
from the deep regions. A few
Symbol of the Cults
of the Dragon Below
seek a promised paradise in some lost cavern far below
the surface, purifying themselves with blood sacrifice to
make themselves worthy to find it. Though little unites
these mad cults beyond their reverence for the forbidden
powers of Khyber, they are generally neutral evil, and
all choose their domains from among Dragon Below,
Earth, Evil, and Madness. Their favored weapon is the
heavy pick.
THE PATH OF LIGHT
The kalashtar of Adar follow no
deity, but they do revere a
universal force of positive
energy they call il-Yannah,
or "the Great Light."
This force is lawful
neutral. Most
followers of the
Path of Light are
psions and psychic
warriors, seeking
to perfect their
bodies and minds
through meditation
and communion with
this light to prepare themselves
for conflict with the
forces of darkness—most particularly,
the Dreaming Dark
of the Inspired of Riedra. A few clerics find a source of
divine magic in il-Yannah, and choose their domains from
among Law, Meditation, and Protection. Their favored
weapon is the unarmed strike.
THE UNDYING COURT
The elves of Aerenal
revere their ancient
dead as incarnate deities,
seeking advice
from deathless councilors
and petitioning
their favor. Unlike
undead creatures, the
deathless elves of the
Undying Court are
animated by positive
energy and are powerful
beings of neutral
good alignment. The
domains associated with
the Undying Court are Deathless,
Good, and Protection.
The court's favored weapon is
the scimitar. 