Magic infuses the world of Eberron. It
rages high above in the Ring of Siberys
that encircles the world. It binds things
dark and foreboding in the deepest
caverns of the underworld of Khyber.
It seeps from the land itself, a source of energy as well
as a means for bending the laws of reality. This chapter
discusses the role of magic in Eberron, presents new
rules for magical effects such as fiendish possession
and celestial channeling, describes the planar cosmology
of Eberron, and includes spell lists and new spells
for spellcasting characters.
MAGIC IN THE WORLD
Magic, and reliance upon magic, shapes and defines the
societies of Eberron. For thousands of years, wizards, sorcerers,
clerics, artificers, adepts, and magewrights have
brought their magical talents to bear to solve the problems
life poses. (The artificer character class is detailed on
page 29; the magewright NPC class appears on page 256.)
These solutions have helped humanoid society develop and
thrive on every continent—particularly on Khorvaire.
The result is a society suffused with magic. Skycoaches fly
among the soaring towers of Sharn. Blacksmiths chant
spells over forges to improve the way they work. Airships
ferry passengers from Zilargo to Karrnath. Weavers draw
threads of shadow into their fabrics. Streets are illuminated
with continual flame spells, and arcane marks emblazon
letters of credit and other important documents. Magic is
in common use, and low-level spells are easily accessible,
although high-level magic is rare and wondrous.
SPELLCASTERS
Two broad categories of spellcasters work across Eberron:
professional spellcasters and elite spellcasters. Each has a
widely different impact on society.
Professional spellcasters include adepts, magewrights,
and others who actually earn a relatively mundane living
by casting spells. These working-class casters keep the
wheels of industry turning—sometimes literally. Broadly,
this category also includes most dragonmarked individuals;
they put their inborn magical ability to economic
use for their house or family. In fact, the dragonmarked
houses of Khorvaire dominate the economic life of the
continent through their near-absolute control over
professional spellcasting. Many of the unmarked members
of the houses are magewrights and adepts, and
professional spellcasters who are not members of the
families usually work for the guilds that the dragonmarked
houses control.
Elite spellcasters include wizards, artificers, sorcerers,
clerics, druids, bards, and members of other
spellcasting PC classes. Elite spellcasters might sell
their services, but they rarely rely on such activity as
their sole occupation and source of income. Few people
can afford to pay for a high-level spell, and the market
for elite spellcasters is too small to support many of them
through their spellcasting alone. Most elite spellcasters
have other professions—they are sages, priests, advisors,
or adventurers.
SERVICES
Most citizens of a Khorvairian city can't afford to have
even a low-level spell cast on their behalf. The 125 gp
price for remove disease, for example, puts that spell out of
reach of most citizens (even those with the House Jorasco
discount) and practically guarantees that disease will
never be eradicated from any of Khorvaire's nations.
On the other hand, most people can afford to hop on a
skycoach to travel from one end of Sharn to the other,
getting a firsthand experience of the incredible magic
that keeps the City of Towers running. Even the poorest
resident of a great city still benefits from the everbright
lanterns found along major thoroughfares. As with any
other services, some magical effects are easily affordable
and widely available, and others are within the reach of
only the wealthiest people.
This section discusses in general terms the kinds
of magical services that are available and their impact
on society. Specific prices for these services are given in
Chapter 6: Adventuring Equipment.