MAJOR SETTLEMENTS
Farms, ranches, and great estates dot the Brelish countryside,
covering the open land in the north and rising up
alongside rivers in the south. While about half of Breland's
population lives as farmers, ranchers, and peasants devoted
to the estates of the Brelish aristocracy, the other half lives
and works in and around the nation's growing centers of
trade and industry—the towns and cities that have grown
up in diverse parts of the domain. The nation contains
two metropolises, Wroat and Sharn, as well as numerous
towns, villages, and cities. Sharn is the largest city on the
continent, not in physical size but in the number of people
who call the City of Towers home.
Sharn (Metropolis, 200,000): There has been a
major settlement on the Hilt of the Dagger River since
before recorded history. The current metropolis, Sharn,
has existed since the formation of the original Five
Nations, about seven hundred years after humans rose
to prominence on the continent. For more than two millennia,
the towers of Sharn have grown, rising thousands
of feet into the sky. This vertical expansion has given the
metropolis its title: The City of Towers.
A riot of architectural styles and designs play through
the city's impressive skyline. From its deepest foundations
to its highest spires, Sharn displays the history of the continent
for all to see. Heavy, oppressive goblinoid architecture
provides the base for much of the city, its stonework
reaching back to a time when humans did not exist on
this continent. Atop this ancient foundation, the periods
of human civilization stack one on top of the other as the
city reaches for the clouds.
The City of Towers can be as impressive as it can be
oppressive. The same skyscrapers of stone can make one
person laugh with excitement and another weep from the
size and weight and impossible heights. Whatever emotion
the city inspires, the place remains a bustle of activity at
all hours of the day and night. With a tremendous array
of cultural, culinary, and commercial delights to sample,
and its position as the gateway to Xen'drik, Sharn attracts
visitors and adventurers from around the world. It is a
hotbed of activity, known in equal measures for its wonders,
its crime rate, its amazing amount of corruption, and
its genuinely exciting atmosphere.
Sharn rises from the cliffs overlooking the Hilt, a
wide bay at the mouth of the Dagger River. This inhospitable
outcropping of rock allowed the city to grow in
only one direction—up. The ports at the base of the cliffs
load and unload cargo and passengers from seafaring
vessels, raising and lowering goods and travelers alike
on massive lifts operated by ropes and pulleys that travel
through the neighborhood of Cliffside. This workingclass
region is built into and upon the steep cliffs overlooking
the river and bay. At the top of the cliffs, the rock
walls seamlessly blend into the earliest stonework laid
in ancient times. Here, the city and its amazing towers
really begin.
The City of Towers is rumored to sit atop a massive
lake of molten lava. Those who work in the bowels
of the city, a subterranean region known as the Cogs,
claim to feel the heat rising off the lava streams, but few
have ever gone below the great furnaces and foundries
of the Cogs to seek for the fiery lake itself. In the Cogs,
heat and magic cooperate to allow workers to process
ores and other raw materials needed to sustain Sham's
industrial machine.
Also within the depths, ancient ruins, labyrinthine
sewers, vertical shafts, and forgotten chambers pile level
upon level, climbing higher and higher until the inhabited
regions are reached. These higher levels, made up of
towers growing like trees in a forest of stone and brick,
contain most of the city's residents and visitors. Poorer
members of society live in the deeper portions of the
towers, while those above gain wealth and status the higher
up they live. The uppermost levels feature open-arched
towers, balconies, bridges, and platforms that form a
strange lacework of "solid" ground high in the air. Above
all of this floats the neighborhood known as Skyway, where
the most affluent citizens live and play.
Sharn is situated within a manifest zone linked to
the plane of Syrania, the Azure Sky. The manifest zone
primarily enhances spells and magic items that permit
levitation and actual flight. Outside the zone, most of these
items either grow weaker or lose the ability to function
altogether. Without the zone, the city's great towers and
spires would crumble, its transportation systems would
collapse, and the neighborhood of Skyway would plummet
to the ground.
Sky coaches slowly move from tower to tower, transporting
people. Other ways to get around the city include
walking (almost every tower can be reached by multiple
bridges that connect the platforms and walkways at different
levels), lifts that ride up and down and side to side
along magical strands of light, and magebred animals
trained to carry passengers within the city's limits.
There's a popular saying on the elevated streets of
Sharn: "If it can be bought, it can be bought here." Shops
and trading stalls abound, usually gathered in trade districts,
open-air markets (called "exchanges"), or merchant
halls (called "tower markets," often multileveled)
found within many tower and building complexes. Some
shops jut from the sides of walls and bridges, ramshackle
structures of wood hastily thrown together or
built around a crack in the stone. Others occupy prime
space set aside for such purposes and leased from tower
landlords. The tower markets present the most elaborate
market exchanges, where shops selling different wares
sit side by side and one atop the other inside the open
cavity of a tower or multistory blockhouse. Beyond these
more or less legitimate business ventures, Sharn boasts
a thriving black market where everything from exotic
146
fruits and animals to illegal spell components and stolen
goods can be traded. Sham's authorities do their best
to curtail this activity, if for no other reason than so
proper taxes can be collected, but supply and demand
make it next to impossible to really control. This leads to
another popular saying: "If someone wants it, someone
sells it in Sharn."
Morgrave University, with its glass walls and roughand-tumble
approach to scholarly pursuits, was founded
in Sharn and to this day maintains its main campus in the
City of Towers. The institute of "learning, relic hunting,
and grave robbing," as it is called by the administrators
of the more respected University of Wynarn, provides
many opportunities for adventurers new to the craft and
calling, and it isn't hard to get a letter of marque from
Morgrave to explore ancient sites. A particularly capable
group might also receive sponsorship or patronage from
the university.
The City Watch enforces the Galifar Code of Justice
throughout Sharn, but in practice, residents are more
likely to encounter a law officer among the higher spires
than in the lower bowels of the city. Constables conduct
regular patrols along the higher bridges, platforms, and
walkways, venturing lower only when necessity or prudence
warrants. Watch towers can be found in every ward, though
there aren't really enough constables to adequately serve
and protect all of Sham's populace. The Watch, reluctantly,
calls on agents of the King's Citadel (who maintain
a presence in the city) when an incident appears to be more
then they can handle. More often, however, the Watch
turns to adventurers when it needs additional deputies for
a short amount of time.
Many merchants and sailors who live or work in Sharn
pick up some amount of the Sahuagin language due to
the proximity of sahuagin settlements beyond the Straits
of Shargon. While many of these tribes remain hostile
to travelers, a few sahuagin settlements have made it a
practice to trade with and sell their services as guides to
those making the trip through Shargon's Teeth to reach
Xen'drik. It helps in dealingwith these tribes if one can
speak their language, whether or not the guides can also
speak Common.
The criminal element thrives in Sharn. It's all about
location, location, location, and the city serves as a
crossroads for both legitimate and illicit trade. Indeed,
some crime lords run extensive and respected legitimate
businesses as cover for their illegal activities. A few of
these enjoy the privileges of a high standing in the community
and even donate a portion of their wealth to
various charities and charitable organizations. If the City
Watch knows about their double lives (and many believe
that it must), it is content to pretend that the good they
do outweighs the evil.
Other than one woefully inadequate attack from the
sea that barely scratched the cliff walls rising from the bay,
the Last War never reached Sharn—at least not in the sense
of marching armies and occupation forces. The City of
Towers did have to contend with spies, saboteurs, terrorists,
and waves of refugees as the years of bloody conflict
dragged on. Perhaps the worst event during those years
occurred in 918 YK, when unknown saboteurs (no one
ever claimed responsibility for the act) caused the Glass
Tower to fall from the sky, killing thousands.
First Tower (Thorp, 64): At first glance, First Tower
doesn't appear to deserve a mention alongside such massive
population centers as Sharn and Wroat. If a settlement
were judged solely on the number of people it contained,
then the place might not even appear on a Brelish map.
As the gateway to Sharn from the northern land passages,
however, First Tower earns prominence and notoriety
befitting the number of travelers who regularly pass
through its humble environs.
The thorp grew up around a single stone tower,
maybe thirty feet high, that legends claim was the first
tower built in the greater Sharn region. Long before
any of Sham's massive structures climbed into the sky,
the people of First Tower believe, the stones of their
ancient spire were stacked one atop the other. Historians
dispute this legend, because the tower and the
ramshackle inn that has been built around it are clearly
not as old as the ancient goblinoid foundations upon
which Sharn grew. The people of First Tower nod, smile
politely, and leave the scholars to their delusions, for
they know in their hearts that they live in an historic
and significant location.
Regardless of the accuracy of the place's history, First
Tower serves an important role in the cycle of life around
Sharn. Those traveling to or from Sharn by land, whether
walking, riding, or as passengers in a caravan or lightning
rail, have only one route they can take. This route cuts
through the crags and cliffs upon which Sharn sits, slices
north, and passes through the settlement of First Tower.