ADVENTURING IN BRELAND
Breland enjoys a safe and relatively peaceful existence.
Trade roads, caravan routes, and the king's roads crisscross
the countryside, promoting travel. Ships navigate the
rivers and connect the Brelish ports to ports throughout
Khorvaire. An extensive system of lightning rail conductor
stones connects the nation to Aundair, Thrane, and
Zilargo, and from these locations to even more distant
realms. Airship docks can be found in most of Breland's
major metropolitan centers, including Wroat and Sharn,
so that this travel venue is also available.
While the farms and cities are safe and secure, for
the most part, there are places where life and limb are at
risk. The environs around the Blackcaps, for instance,
often attract monsters and evil bands that hide within
the mountains and strike when the opportunity presents
itself. Monstrous warbands can appear out of Droaam
without warning—if the Last War still continues anywhere,
it does so along the Droaam—Breland border. The
Mournland occasionally spits some horror or another out
of its dead-gray mists, and pirates regularly strike from
the southern seas.
Many adventurers get their start in Sharn, the City of
Towers. The place is rife with danger, opportunities, and
adventure potential, making it a natural magnet for those
seeking to make a living by the sword, the spell, and their
inherent skills. While the upper portions of the city have
the same troubles plaguing them as in any other metropolis,
the lower portions of the city quickly transform from
crime-ridden tenements to monster-filled dungeons.
For this reason, some adventurers never need leave the
City of Towers to enjoy busy careers and fill their coffers.
Sharn also presents a number of gateways to the rest of
the world. From its ports and airship docks and lightning
rail stations, all of Khorvaire and beyond can be reached.
Indeed, if there's a clear path to the mysterious continent
of Xen'drik, it starts in Sharn.
Breland makes use of the Galifar Code of Justice, and
law enforcers can be found in every thorp, village, and
city. In addition, the Citadel and traveling magistrates dispense
justice as appropriate, as do the military tribunals
that operate out of Breland's mobile fortresses. In Sharn,
adventurers are given some latitude as far as the law is
concerned, but those who abuse the system can expect to
spend time in one of the local or royal prisons.
The people of Breland love liberty and freedom.
They are a tolerant, accepting people, with a tendency to
be friendly and helpful. They are disposed to liking those
of Aundairian and Zil descent, and they feel an obligation
toward the refugees of Cyre. Mostly ambivalent toward
the people of Thrane, many Brelish still harbor feelings
of anger and fear where the Karrns are concerned. If it
comes from Droaam, the Brelish have a tendency to strike
first and ask questions later. Even then, a lone monstrous
humanoid can find acceptance in Sharn, as long as it doesn't
cause any trouble.
ADVENTURE IDEAS
—A Citadel agent, dying and beyond help, orders the
adventurers to complete her mission for the king.
—A Sharn constable deputizes a group of adventurers
and charges them with solving the murder of a prominent
citizen of the City of Towers.
—While constructing a new addition to the Fourteenth
Tower, workers discover an ancient series of chambers deep
within the structure. Adventurers are hired to explore the
chambers and report on what they find within.
—A representative of Morgrave University seeks ablebodied
adventurers to undertake a mission to Xen'drik.
He provides a letter of reference that will get the adventurers
an audience with his contact in Stormreach, a
contact who can provide them with a map to a trove of
ancient relics.
—The prince of New Cyre puts out a call for brave
adventurers willing to enter the Mournland on a mission
of great importance to the Cyran exiles. Rumors coming
out of the east suggest that the Cyran royal palace survived
the devastation that laid waste to the nation, and the prince
needs trustworthy adventurers to test the validity of the
rumors. If some portion of the royal palace has survived,
the prince wants the adventurers to enter the palace vaults
and bring him the Cyran crown.
—Pirates operating in the Hilt have been disrupting
trade and travel around Sharn. The Royal Navy needs
help to find the pirates and put a stop to their raids, and
a call goes out for adventurers looking for a short but
profitable commission.
—House Vadalis wants to secure seeds from a griffon
fruit, a rare tropical fruit that grows in a small grove deep
in the King's Forest. The reasons this particular quest
might prove to be troublesome: the Knight Rangers won't
allow anyone without a permit to enter the forest; because
of the increasing threat of the Jungle Boys, no permits are
currently being assigned; the grove is protected by a mad
druid; and the fruit only ripens once every decade, on the
upcoming Night of Three Moons.
—House Orien requires a small group of adventurers
to accompany one of its couriers. The courier
must pick up a package from one of the halfling crime
lords operating in Sharn and deliver the package to the
halfling's agent in Galethspyre. The adventurers are
needed to protect the courier and her package, since
more than one of the halfling's rivals doesn't want it to
get delivered.
—A bounty hunter from House Tharashk seeks hirelings
to help him locate and capture a Brelish deserter
that he has tracked to Black Pit. Captain Desro, a onetime
paladin who became a blackguard after leading his
men into an ambush during the Battle of Corry Pass, has
been on the run for four years. House Tharashk
recently picked up his trail, but the agent is.
reluctant to take on the powerful blackguard
without some help.