POWER GROUPS
At this point, the goblinoids have little to offer the other
nations aside from their soldiers. Many of the dragonmarked
house leaders distrust Haruuc, and so are reluctant
to commit too many resources to Darguun. While all
of the houses maintain outposts in Rhukaan Draal, their
members are rarely found elsewhere in the realm.
House Deneith: The rebellion of the goblinoid
mercenaries in 969 YK was a terrible embarrassment for
House Deneith. Nevertheless, the leaders of the house
have since established a strong relationship with Haruuc.
The hobgoblin warlord appreciates the legitimacy he gains
through the association, while House Deneith needs the
mercenary troops Haruuc provides. In addition to its outpost
inside Rhukaan Draal, House Deneith maintains a
fortress a short distance away from the capital city. Known
as the Gathering Stone, this fortress serves as a staging area
and training center for mercenaries who have agreed to
serve the house.
House Tharashk: The prospectors of House Tharashk
have taken a great interest in the potential mineral wealth
of the Seawall Mountains since the end of the Last War.
Unable to reach agreement with Zilargo to mine from the
western side, agents of the house have been negotiating with
the goblinoid tribes to approach the mountains from the
east. However, the orc heritage of Tharashk works against
this plan; many of the hobgoblin leaders harbor strong
prejudice against the orcs. House Tharashk has established
an outpost in Rhukaan Draal in hopes of strengthening its
position in the kingdom and reaching an agreement that
proves beneficial to all sides.
Goblinoids (general): Each of the three goblinoid
tribes is multiracial and consists of goblins, hobgoblins,
and bugbears. It isn't too unusual to find members of other
races among the tribes. Some of these have embraced the
goblinoid traditions and fought for a place of honor within
the clans. Others are slaves, working for the benefit and
amusement of their goblinoid masters.
Rhukaan Taash (Razor Crown): Rhukaan Taash, the largest
and most powerful of the Ghaal'dar clans, rules over the
lowlands. While the clan possesses many skilled warriors,
its greatest strength is its vast numbers. Individually,
Rhukaan Taash warriors are no match for the soldiers of
the Dhakaani clans, but collectively they make up a force
that can't easily be threatened. This clan has been loyal to
the Lhesh Haruuc since the hobgoblin led the goblinoid
revolt twenty-nine years ago, but not every member of the
clan is completely content. While Haruuc has sought to
consolidate his power and earn legitimacy for Darguun,
many of the lesser chieftains feel that the goblinoids
should continue to expand the nation. Some have even
urged preemptive attacks on Breland and Zilargo, arguing
that the humans and gnomes will one day come for them if
the Rhukaan do not strike first. Such views shall undoubtedly
cause trouble in the future, especially after Haruuc's
reign ends, whether he falls from power or eventually dies
of old age. For now, it is just another thing for the warlord
to contend with.
The Lhesh Haruuc (LN male hobgoblin, fighter 10/
rogue 2) is still firmly in control but getting older. As his
strength fades and his battle prowess loses potency, his
remarkable skill with words becomes increasingly instrumental
in maintaining control over the tribes. In recent
years, he has quietly begun looking for talented youngsters
from whom he could appoint an heir, approaching
the problem from the point of view of a brilliant general
needing an equally skilled successor rather than as a king
trying to preserve a bloodline.
Most hobgoblin mercenaries employed outside
Darguun belong to Rhukaan Taash or one of the other
Ghaal'dar clans. A distinctive ring of scars encircles the
head of each Rhukaan Taash warrior, just above the eyes.
This identifying mark is the result of painful initiation
rituals each warrior goes through to prove his worth and
readiness for adulthood.
Kech Shaarat (Bladebearers): The Bladebearers, named
for a powerful artifact in their possession, are the largest
of the Dhakaani clans. For thousands of years the
Dhakaani clans have isolated themselves from the rest of
the world, but they see the rise of Darguun as the first
sign of a restored Dhakaani Empire. Now the clans have
emerged from their fortress caverns and are partaking
in a brutal struggle to determine the rightful heir to the
imperial throne. Since these battles are confined to the
depths of the Seawall Mountains and do not involve outsiders,
the Lhesh Haruuc has paid little attention to the
conflict. But if one leader can win the loyalty of all the
Dhakaani clans, he could challenge Haruuc for control
of the Darguun nation.
Chieftain Ruus Dhakaan (LN male hobgoblin, fighter
13) seeks to prove his right to rule through conquest. Kech
Shaarat has already absorbed two smaller clans, and it
seems only a matter of time until Ruus has all of the
Dhakaani forces under his control. He outwardly bows
to the Lhesh Haruuc's authority, but in his mountain lair
considers his own word to be more powerful than that of
the lowland pretender. His soldiers rarely leave the Seawall
Mountains; they can be identified by sword-shaped brands
on one or both forearms.
Kech Volaar (Wordbearers): The Wordbearers have gone to
great lengths to preserve the lore of the Dhakaani Empire.
Though Kech Volaar is one of the smallest Dhakaani clans,
its armorers and stonemasons are unmatched in all of
Darguun. This great skill has allowed their fortifications
to hold against Kech Shaarat and other aggressive clans.
Led by Tuura Dhakaan (N female hobgoblin, bard 9),
the strongest dirge singer the clans have seen in over a
thousand years, the Wordbearers keep the memory of the
ancient goblinoid empire alive. Instead of seeking conquest
through military victory, Tuura intends to prove her
right to rule by gathering the lost artifacts of the ancient
empire—both to serve as a symbol and to provide her with
enough magical power to overcome her foes. Kurac Thaar
(LN male hobgoblin, fighter 8), the clan's warlord, is as
fanatically devoted to Tuura and her vision of the restored
empire as the rest of Kech Volaar.
Kech Volaar goblinoids often venture beyond Darguun
in search of Dhakaani ruins, but they do not work as
mercenaries. They rarely interact with other races except
in the pursuit of a mission. Symbols depicting important
events are often tattooed on members of the clan; those
who read Goblin can learn much about an individual
through the study of these markings.
Kalkor: The Marguul tribe consists of an alliance of
bugbear-led clans that live in the highlands of the Seawall
Mountains. For the most part, the Marguul clans
pay homage to the court of Rhukaan Draal, benefiting
from Darguun's ties to the outside world. However, one
Marguul clan, Kalkor, refuses to bow to the hobgoblin
Haruuc. Led by Mograath (NE male bugbear, fighter
7/rogue 3), Kalkor is not the largest Marguul clan,
but its members are easily the most vicious. Dedicated
followers of the Mockery, Mograath and his warriors
represent a threat to anyone who travels through the
Seawall Mountains—especially those carrying a banner
of safe passage from Haruuc. Gruesome facial scars
displayed in a fang pattern distinguish members of the
Kalkor clan.
RELIGION
Traditionally, the goblinoids worship either the Shadow
or the Mockery. Over the last century they have been
introduced to the other gods of the Sovereign Host. The
Lhesh Haruuc follows the teachings of Dol Dorn and has
done much to spread the worship of the Sovereign Host
among the lowland tribes. Temples dedicated to Dol
Dorn, Dol Arran, and Balinor can be found in the city
of Rhukaan Draal.
MAJOR SETTLEMENTS
The lowland goblinoids live in the rebuilt ruins of old
Cyre towns, while the highland and mountain tribes live
in natural caverns or simple longhouse communities.
The larger Ghaal'dar clans and the Dhakaani clans have
their own capitals, but one major city dwarfs all others:
Rhukaan Draal, the capital of Darguun and the headquarters
of the Lhesh Haruuc.
Rhukaan Draal (Metropolis, 82,460): The heart of
Rhukaan Draal was once a frontier Cyran town; over the
last two decades it has grown into a sprawling goblinoid
metropolis. Rough yet functional Ghaal'dar architecture
creates a city of patchwork styles and materials. The most
impressive structure is the royal palace; dissatisfied with
the work of his kindred, the Lhesh Haruuc hired the
stonemasons of House Gannith to build his home and
fortress, called Khaar Mbar'ost, or Red House (literally,
"blood-colored fortified dwelling"). This ten-story tower
of red granite dominates the skyline of Rhukaan Draal.
Virtually all the hobgoblin clans have representatives at
Haruuc's court, though the Dhakaani clans maintain a
particularly low profile; their agents monitor events for
their lords but try not to attract attention to the activities
of their clans.
The Ghaal'dar goblinoids are known for their skill
in battle, not for their artistry with crafts. As a result, the
market of Rhukaan Draal is mainly a place to trade for
imported goods.
The laws of the city are simple, and the hobgoblins
take little interest in the history of their guests. As a result,
many criminals flee to Rhukaan Draal to avoid justice, and
smugglers can freely sell goods in the marketplace that
would put them on the wrong side of the law in Breland
or Thrane.
Volaar Draal (Small City, 8,360): Thousands
of years ago the Dhakaani clans carved their fortresses
into the roots of the Seawall Mountains. Volaar Draal,
the stronghold of the Kech Volaar clan, is hidden deep
beneath the peaks and crags. Its vast underhalls contain
fungus fields that produce food for the city, forges for
armorers, libraries and vaults to house the relics of the
empire, and a great cavern in which Kech Volaar troops
perform battle drills. The stonework easily matches the best
the dwarves of the Mror Holds can produce. Few outsiders
are allowed to visit these wondrous vaults.
Wyvernskull (Small Town, 1,100): A port town
at the mouth of the Torlaac River, Wyvernskull sits on
the edge of the Khraal rain forest. This haven in the
midst of the wilderness provides an important entryway
into the kingdom for the few traders that approach Darguun
from the southern seas. If trade ever increases,
this town would blossom. Until then, its inhabitants
eke out an existence as they wait for the infrequent but
necessary trader visits.
Gorgonhorn (Fortified Village, 700): Gorgonhorn
occupies the last stretch of habitable land in Darguun
before the blight of the Mournland swallows all light and
life. The goblinoids that live within this
fortified village patrol the border and
watch for incursions. Once, those incursions
came from Cyre or Breland. Now, the
defenders of Gorgonhorn keep an eye out
Lhesh Haruuc
of Darguun
for monsters and worse things that often slip out of the
Mournland and threaten Darguun's northern plains.
IMPORTANT SITES
The land of Darguun was once part of Cyre. Over the
course of the Last War, most of the towns, temples, and
fortresses in the region were razed and abandoned. Dozens
of ruins remain—some seized by the goblinoids, others
shunned for the curses, ghosts, or other horrors that
haunt them.
Lyrenton: One of the shunned locations, this devastated
Cyran town on the border of the Mournland is
believed to be cursed. Any who visit the place are said to
quickly fall prey to a wasting disease (inhaled; DC 18; 1
day; 1d3 Str and 1d3 Con). Even if a visitor can withstand
the strange illness, the place seems to draw horrors from
the Mournland the way an everbright lantern attracts moths.
At night a terrible wailing echoes among the ruins and can
be heard for miles across the plains.
Warden Keep: This House Deneith prison was used
during the height of the kingdom of Galifar to contain
some of the worst criminals given over to the care of the
Defenders Guild. Converted into a fortress during the
Last War, the place was used by the Cyran army up until
the Darguun revolt. The keep, still largely intact, became
a tomb for the Cyran forces when Haruuc and his forces
laid siege to the place. The Cyrans refused to surrender or
flee, and so were surrounded and cut off from supplies and
outside aid. The two thousand troops died slowly of starvation
and growing illness as Haruuc simply ordered his
troops to watch and wait. Today, the goblinoids shun the
keep, believing it to be haunted by the last Cyran troops to
fill its ancient battlements.
The Torlaac Moor: This expanse of blasted heath and
stone runs along the eastern base of the Seawall Mountains.
Ruins from the time of the Dhakaani Empire are
believed to dot the moor, and subterranean dungeons hide
beneath the mire. Members of the Kech Volaar clan have
spent a great deal of time exploring the area, but the moors
are vast and hide their secrets well.
The Khraal Rain Forest: The Khraal rain forest
fills the eastern spur of Darguun. Within its dense depths,
all manner of strange and dangerous creatures roam. An
extensive series of ruins, believed to be from the time of
the Dhakaani Empire, lies deep within the vibrant jungle.
A few towns and villages can be found along the edge of the
great jungle, but not even the most powerful hobgoblins
or bugbears have been brave enough to try to forge settlements
within this dangerous environment.
The Seven Caves: One of the highest peaks of the
northern Seawall Mountains, Pargon's Peak contains a
network of remarkable caves said to contain a part of the
draconic Prophecy. The Seven Caves, as the Dhakaani
and Marguul clans call them, consist of seven huge vaults
that seem to be magically dug from the living stone of the
mountain. From the First Chamber that can be reached
from a cave opening high in the mountain, to the Seventh
Chamber that plunges toward the very bowels of the world,
the Seven Caves are wondrous and awe-inspiring. Inside
each strangely shaped cavern, amazing dragonmarks glow
and swirl across the walls, floors, and ceilings. Each cave,
in theory, reveals a different series of omens and portents,
but few among the goblinoids have the courage to
brave these sacred vaults to study them. Anyone who does
attempt to enter the Seven Caves must contend with the
wyvern colonies that regularly use them to nest and raise
their young.
ADVENTURING IN DARGUUN
House Orien runs trade roads that connect Rhukaan
Draal to Thrane and Breland. The roads are relatively
safe for the Orien caravans and their Deneith guardians,
but other travelers use the roads at their own risk. Anyone
who intends to travel outside the capital city is advised to
obtain a banner of safe passage from the Lhesh Haruuc's
authorities at the royal court. Travelers are required to
explain their need for the banner, and a fee is levied based
on the purpose of the visit. Typically this amounts to 100
gold pieces, but prospecting or relic-hunting expeditions
may incur greater fees. The pattern of the banner changes
on a monthly basis, so adventurers cannot simply keep an
old banner to maintain permanent safe passage. In fact,
displaying an out-of-date banner usually provokes attacks
by hobgoblin and bugbear raiders. In general, however,
a valid banner from the Lhesh Haruuc prevents random
violence and allows travelers to engage in business with the
tribal communities.
Even for those with a banner of protection, Darguun
can be a violent and unpredictable land. Brawls and bloody
conflicts are a part of life among the Ghaal'dar clans of
the lowlands. A banner keeps an adventurer from being
singled out as a target, but it won't protect him if he provokes
a conflict or causes trouble.
Darguun is a frontier nation. The people in the
smaller villages know the government is out there and
respect the idea of the law, but if a stranger insults you,
it's time for a showdown.
As a general rule, the Ghaal'dar clans are unfriendly
toward outsiders and hostile toward half-orcs and elves.
There has long been enmity between the goblinoids and
the orcs, and more recently the elves of Valenar have
been raiding Darguun from the sea. Possession of a valid
banner of safe passage improves the attitude of the locals
by one step.
The northern plains have few wandering monsters,
except along the Mournland border. The goblinoids themselves,
however, are suspicious and dislike strangers, so
they pose the greatest danger to visitors. The mountains
and southern wilderness are a different story. In addition
to the highland tribes, the mountains are home to
all kinds of monsters. The moors to the south have their
share of dangerous creatures, though natural hazards
can be even more deadly in that harsh environment. The
jungles of Khraal teem with deadly creatures, and even
the bravest hobgoblins and bugbears refuse to venture too
deeply into its dark interior.
Adventures of all sorts abound in Darguun. Explorers
can crawl through the many ruins that dot the land.
Remnants of ancient Dhakaan can be found in the Seawall
Mountains and among the lowland moors and jungles.