More recent Cyran ruins remain, as well as older structures
dating back to the height of the Galifar kingdom.
Conflicts and intrigues involving the various goblinoid
clans make for exciting adventures; the possible unification
of the Dhakaani clans would certainly concern
the King of Breland, and the Library of Korranberg is
always on the lookout for historical knowledge to add to
its storehouses. Otherwise, untapped mineral resources
await discovery in the Seawall Mountains, and there are
those who will pay well to either shore up or tear down the
Lhesh Haruuc and his dream of a unified Darguun.
Finally, the law holds little power in Darguun, and
this lack of rules and regulations can drive adventures.
Rhukaan Draal serves as a sanctuary for criminals and
fugitives of all sorts, so it isn't unusual for adventurers to
wind up with jobs that take them to the Darguun capital
in search of those who have escaped justice in the Five
Nations. Likewise, if a party requires illicit goods, blackmarket
items, or hirelings with a penchant for breaking
the law, the trade exchanges and taverns of the capital city
are good places to look.
ADVENTURE IDEAS
—A necromancer of the Order of the Emerald Claw
establishes an outpost in the Torlaac Moor, seeking to
draw on the remnants of ancient battles to create undead
mind flayers.
—A dangerous fugitive wanted by the Citadel of Breland,
Knights of Thrane, and the Aurum is hidden somewhere
in Rhukaan Draal. If the Aurum locates him before the
forces of law, the consequences could be dire.
—A strange and dangerous alchemical substance is
traced to the markets of Rhukaan Draal.
—The Lhesh Haruuc wants to hire a group of nongoblinoid
spies to investigate the activities of the Dhakaani
clans.
—Raiders have been harassing human settlers near the
border town of Kennrun, a village on the Breland border
with the Mournland, not far from the Darguun village of
Gorgonhorn. Are the raiders really from Darguun, or is
the goblinoid nation being framed?
—House Orien needs guards-for-hire to protect the
next trade caravan traveling from Breland to Rhukaan
Draal. Lately, the highland tribes have been harassing
the passing caravans as they come through Marguul Pass,
so House Orien wants to add a little muscle to discourage
further attacks.
—Tuura Dhakaan, leader of the Kech Volaar clan, puts
out a call for adventurers willing to brave the Khraal wilderness
to recover a relic from the age of the goblinoid
empire. Tuura possesses an ancient map that shows the
location of the site, but she is reluctant to send more of
her own clan-mates into the dangerous forest.
—Emissaries of the Lhesh Haruuc seek to hire adventurers
brave and strong enough to deal with a monstrosity
that has emerged from the Mournland. It has already
destroyed three patrols from Gorgonhorn and threatens
the farming villages of the northern plains.