KAIUS REVEALED
Kaius III keeps a closely guarded secret. He is not who or
what he appears to be. Only a handful of people in the inner
sanctum of Kaius's court have even the slightest inkling
that something isn't quite right, and even fewer know the
truth of the situation. What is the truth? It's a long, strange
tale that boils down to this: Kaius III is Kaius I.
When the Last War was in full swing, Kaius I was
approached by priests of the Blood of Vol. These priests
promised to aid Karrnath against its enemies, provided
Kaius agreed to a few "minor" considerations. With Cyre
and Thrane pounding on his borders, and a breakdown
in diplomatic relations that left Karrnath temporarily
without allies, Kaius agreed to whatever terms the priests
had—so long as he was provided with the means to repel
the invaders.
First, the priests worked with Kaius's own court
wizards to perfect the process for creating zombie and
skeleton troops to bolster Karrnath's forces. With the
addition of armor and weapons, as well as a slight increase
in power, these undead were stronger and more formidable
than the average mindless walking corpse. Second,
the priests provided an elite fighting force dedicated to
both Vol and Kaius—the Order of the Emerald Claw.
"The Order will help you here and in distant lands, where
its agents will foster unrest and revolution in the homes
of your enemies," the priests explained. Both of these
gifts gave an immediate boost to Karrnath's beleaguered
forces, and the Order took credit for internal strife in
Cyre, Breland, and Aundair.
When Vol, the ancient lich at the heart of the Blood
of Vol cult, appeared before Kaius to collect her "considerations"
for the aid her priests provided him, he had
no choice but to submit. In addition to allowing the cult
to establish temples and bases throughout Karrnath, Vol
demanded that Kaius partake in the Sacrament of Blood.
Instead of the usual ceremony, Vol invoked an ancient
incantation that turned Kaius into a vampire. Instead of
becoming a compliant thrall, however, Kaius fought to
keep his independence. Furious that the vampire refused
to be humbled, Vol eventually forced the issue by triggering
Kaius's blood lust (something he had been struggling
to control). When the crimson haze cleared, Kaius discovered
that he had killed his beloved wife.
Now, after eighty years of hiding and secretly working
to break all ties with the Blood of Vol, Kaius (LE vampire
[human], aristocrat 2/fighter 11) has returned to govern
his nation. He has taken the place of his great-grandson,
pretending to be Kaius III. With the aid of various magic
items and abilities, he hides his vampiric nature. A burning
desire to rebuild his shattered kingdom drives Kaius
forward, making him one of the most troubled and
dedicated rulers in all the land.