POWER GROUPS
The royal family and the noble warlords possess the visible
power in Karrnath. All of the dragonmarked houses conduct
business in the nation, but only House Deneith and
House Jorasco use Karrnath as their base of operations. A
few secret power groups operate within Karrnath, including
the Blood of Vol cult and its military arm, the Order
of the Emerald Claw. A discussion of these power groups
and how they interact with each other follows.
The Royal Family: Karrnath's royal family consists
of King Kaius III, his wife Etrigani, the king's younger
brother and sister, and assorted uncles, aunts, and cousins.
Kaius retains the services of his aunt, the Regent
Moranna, as his chief advisor and minister of internal
affairs. (Moranna, who is actually Kaius's granddaughter
rather than his aunt, is secretly a vampire like her king;
see the sidebar on page 178 for more information about
the king of Karrnath's secret.)
Queen Etrigani (CG female elf, aristocrat 4/wizard
2) met Kaius when she appeared before his court on behalf
of the government of Aerenal during a diplomatic tour of
the Five Nations. An intense courtship followed, and the
two were married in 993 YK, on the second anniversary
of Kaius's ascension to the throne. The queen has taken an
active interest in the affairs of her adopted nation, and Kaius
regularly sends her as an emissary to foreign courts. (Etrigani
knows of her husband's true nature and has fought to overcome
her cultural bias against negatively charged undead.)
Moranna (LE female human vampire aristocrat
4/sorcerer 5) continues to serve as regent of Karrnath, a
post that has been transformed from a stewardship to an
advisory position. She never ventures far from the court or
from Kaius's side, except when he sends her out in his name to
handle crises near and far. Moranna, a large, strong woman,
has a commanding manner and a no-nonsense approach
that leaves most of her underlings shaking in her wake.
The king keeps a harem, but not for the reason that
most people think. All of the members of the king's harem
are followers of the Blood of Vol who have given their allegiance
to Kaius. The young men and women in the harem
voluntarily give themselves to Kaius so that the king can
feed. He never takes more blood than an individual can
safely give, and he never goes to the same individual more
than once in any two-week period. The harem is kept
secluded in its own wing of Crownhome, Kaius's family
castle, and is forbidden to speak with anyone besides the
king or queen. A warforged named Beauty (LN female
personality warforged, fighter 7) guards the harem, having
served Kaius faithfully since before his current ascension
to the throne.
One of the more powerful members of Kaius's family
is Count Vedim ir'Omik (LE male human, wizard 9), a
royal cousin who holds the position of Minister of the
Dead for the crown. Vedim, a practitioner of necromancy
who has a fascination for all things related to death and
the undead, oversees the collection of corpses and the
creation and maintenance of the undead troops used to
bolster Karrnath's forces. Prior to this new age of peace,
Vedim's role was much more visible and prominent than
it currently is. Now, because of Kaius's desire to forge a
lasting peace, Vedim is forced to operate in the shadows.
Kaius has not ordered him to stop the program, but he has
told Vedim to keep a lower profile. Vedim believes that all
this talk of peace will eventually fail, and then he will once
again receive the recognition he deserves.
Kaius has recently sent his brother Gaius to Thrane
and his sister Haydith to Breland as part of the current
exchange of relatives among the ruling families. He would
prefer to have his younger siblings close so he can oversee
their training, but improving relations with the other
remnants of Galifar is too important for Kaius to refuse
to participate.
Nobles and Vassal Lords: The nobles granted land
and title by the crown of Karrnath function as warlords for
the highly militaristic nation. From their fortress-towns,
called raths, the warlords protect their holdings and
gather their legions until the king calls for their services.
Two of the most powerful and influential warlords, Renn
ir'Tanar (CN male human, fighter 7) and Charl ir'Loran
(LE male human, aristocrat 1/ranger 6), command the battalions
of the living charged with defending the heart of
the Karrnathi nation. Both of these men publicly support
their king, but behind the scenes they lead efforts to derail
the peace process and restart the war.
House Deneith: From high within the Sentinel Tower
in Karrlakton, the patriarch of House Deneith and other
family leaders conduct the business of defense and protection.
Breven d'Deneith (LN male human, aristocrat 3/fighter
3/dragonmark heir 3) controls the family with an iron fist.
Despite the family's strong ties to Karrnath, Breven demands
that all members of his house maintain an attitude of neutrality
and fairness to all nations and institutions. Breven's
Defenders Guild operates out of the house enclave, as do
the offices of the Sentinel Marshals. In the early years of the
kingdom of Galifar, the Sentinel Marshals were granted the
right to enforce laws and bring fugitives to justice throughout
the land. When the kingdom shattered, Deneith's Sentinel
Marshals retained their role as law officers with the added
ability to cross borders in pursuit of justice. Today, all the
nations that signed the Treaty of Thronehold have agreed to
allow Deneith to continue in this role as international police
officers. The marshals all return to the Sentinel Tower as
time and circumstance permits to report on their activities
and receive updated instructions.
House Jorasco: The matriarch of House Jorasco, Ulara
d'Jorasco (LG female halfling, adept 6/dragonmarkheir 5),
maintains a healing enclave in the city of Vedykar. Almost
a city unto itself within greater Vedykar, the Healers Guild
enclave is a huge complex from which the house conducts
business across Khorvaire. The complex also contains healing
facilities, a training hospital, a spa for long-term convalescence,
and an asylum for those the healers can't cure of
madness and other mental maladies. Ulara rarely travels far
from the enclave, leaving the business of managing distant
healing centers to younger members of the family.
The Twelve: The Twelve is the arcane institute established,
funded, and named by the dragonmarked houses. It
operates out of a thirteen-tiered tower that floats above Wollvern
Park in the capital city of Korth. (The thirteenth tier, in
memorial to the legendary lost mark, was constructed as a
179
hollow shell and remains empty to this day.) In addition to
using it as a center of arcane learning, the dragonmarked
houses share in the arcane research undertaken within
the floating tower. The kings of Karrnath have regularly
sought advice and council from the Twelve, and Kaius has
not abandoned this practice. As might be expected, the
Twelve suffered significant loses over the course of the Last
War, as many senior wizards resigned their posts to offer
their services to their beleaguered homelands, particularly
in the years leading up to the cessation of hostilities. Now,
with their numbers reduced and less powerful wizards sitting
on the Committee of Twelve just so that each house
holds its seat, the Twelve is at a crossroads. Will it lose
ground to the increasingly important Arcane Congress of
Aundair, or will the dragonmarked houses find wizards
worthy of the Twelve among their ranks?
The Blood of Vol: A cult dedicated to the undead in
general (and secretly to the lich Vol in particular), the
Blood of Vol has had a foothold in Karrnath since the
time of Kaius I. Although the king was eventually able
to break the cult's hold on his government, the Blood
of Vol continues to operate in the nation's secret places,
watching for opportunities to expand its influence and
for ways to once again insinuate itself into the kingdom's
halls of power. The high priest of the cult in Karrnath is
Malevanor (LE male mummy [half-elf], cleric 8 Blood
of Vol), who oversees the rites and rituals of blood within
the Crimson Monastery, the largest temple dedicated to
the Blood of Vol in the nation. The Crimson Monastery
commands a prime piece of real estate in Atur, the City of
Night. Though the cult doesn't draw as many followers as it
once did, and though many of its shrines and temples have
been closed or forced into hiding, the Crimson Monastery
remains active and open to the current day. Malevanor's
adepts and other cult members have hooks throughout
the kingdom, secretly manipulating events from the deep
shadows while presenting a humble countenance from
their open temple.
The Order of the Emerald Claw: Once, this knightly
order served the king of Karrnath faithfully. Now the order
has been outlawed and the government has denounced its
activities. Still, the Order of the Emerald Claw continues
to operate, following the agenda set forth for it by its secret
master, the lich Vol. When the order served the king, it
provided security, elite agents, and unswerving shock troops
that were a step or two better than the average Karrnathi
soldier. As long as the king's commands did not violate the
will of the order's secret master, the knights of the Emerald
Claw appeared to be unquestionably loyal to the king and
fanatically dedicated to crown and nation.
When Kaius I learned the truth of their allegiance
and how he had been used, he started the process of disbanding
and disenfranchising the order. This was not
accomplished until the reign of Regent Moranna, when
the order was driven underground. Now the Emerald
Claw operates as a vast underground network and terrorist
group, proclaiming itself to be working to return
Karrnath to greatness. In truth, the order is just another
elaborate plot and powerful tool in the service of Vol, the
lich lord of the Blood of Vol cult. Much larger and more
Sentinel Tower in Karrlakton
active in Khorvaire's current events than anyone is aware
of, the Order of the Emerald Claw is a powerful army
ready to serve the will of Vol. The true nature of the order
remains a closely guarded secret, and any who discover its
connection to the Blood of Vol quickly become sacrifices
for the blood ceremonies.
RELIGION
The Sovereign Host holds sway over the majority of the
nation, with most of its temples and churches dedicated
to Boldrei, Dol Arrah, Dol Dorn, or Olladra. Because of
the tensions between Karrnath and Thrane, the Church of
the Silver Flame has only a token presence here, with small
conclaves in Korth and Vedykar. A small but not insignificant
part of the population still follows the teachings
of the Blood of Vol, despite the crown's official break with
the cult. In the Crimson Monastery, located in the city of
Atur, the cult continues to hold open ceremonies in honor
of the power of blood and the mysteries of undeath. Note
that most of the normal crafters and townsfolk who adhere
to the tenets of the Blood of Vol don't know about the lich
at the cult's head and aren't evil. They simply believe in
the notion of blood as the source of life and undeath as a
path to divinity.
MAJOR SETTLEMENTS
Karrnath's citizens congregate in the metropolitan centers
that lie in the western part of the nation, with a much
smaller population in the farmland to the east. Consequently,
most of the major settlements have grown up west of
the Ashen Spires Mountains. Some of the more prominent
settlements are discussed below.
Korth (Metropolis, 85,500): The city of Korth
has served as Karrnath's capital since before the days of
the kingdom of Galifar. Some of its buildings date back
to the earliest human settlements; many others were
built during the great expansion that marked the middle
period of Galifar I's reign. The Korth skyline rises along
the southern shore of the Karrn River, with the dense
Nightwood to the east of the city gates. The high walls of
Crownhome, the hereditary home of Karrnath's royal
family, rise atop King's Hill in the Highcourt Ward of
the city. Another prominent structure, the Cathedral
of the Sovereign Host, fills a sizable piece of real estate
in the Temple Ward and has shrines dedicated to the
entire pantheon.
In general, the style of the city is heavy and symmetrical,
with blocks set forth in a grid or radiating out from
a central plaza. The militaristic influence that infuses all
of Karrnath society permeates Korth and helps define
the monolithic appearance of the buildings and decorative
features such as monuments, obelisks, and tombs.
Five wards make up greater Korth, and each ward has
its own personality. These wards are named Highcourt,
Temple, Commerce, Community, and Low District. While
each ward consists of living space, markets, and other city
necessities, each concentrates on an aspect of city life and
is built to accommodate that aspect. The Highcourt Ward
houses most of the government departments, as well as
the halls of the royal family and some of the more affluent
noble families. The Temple Ward features winding streets
dedicated to the many religions of Khorvaire; everything
from small shrines to giant cathedrals can be found here,
and some representative of even the most obscure cult
probably finds a location to preach from within the walls
of this ward. The Commerce Ward presents businesses
of all types and provides space for the enclaves of all the
dragonmarked houses; supply and demand come together
inside this sprawling ward. The Community Ward is the
most residential ward in Korth, providing housing for
the middle class. The Low District is a dangerous maze
of narrow streets from which the poor and the destitute
attempt to eke out an existence. The criminal element has
a firm hold on the Low District, using its twisting warrens
as a hiding place and somewhere from which to conduct
business best done in the shadows.
Karrlakton (Metropolis, 60,000): Located along
the Cyre River, southeast of Korth, the second great city
of Karrnath stares into the face of disaster across the turbulent
waters. Karrlakton, an ancient place of power and
the birthplace of kings (both Karrn the Conqueror and
Galifar I were born here), can never completely shake the
feeling of despair that hangs over the place; the memory
of poor Cyre remains fresh as an open wound.
House Deneith has a lot of influence in Karrlakton,
and enclaves, outposts, training centers, and barracks can
be found throughout the city. Here, one of Karrnath's
largest industrial centers churns out weapons and armor.
Karrnathi armaments tend to be functional and heavy,
with neither the styling nor elegance evident in their Brelish
counterparts.
Because of the close proximity of the Mournland,
Karrlakton attracts a number of doomsayers and apocalyptic
cultists. One can look across the river to see the wall of
dead-gray mist like a funeral shroud that hugs the border
of what was once Cyre. Rarely does anything slip out of the
Mournland and make it across the fast-moving river, but
sometimes the winds change to carry a flying monstrosity
or living spell into Karrlakton.
The ports of Karrlakton were once active and important
to the interior sections of the nation. Since the destruction
of Cyre, however, water activity has decreased significantly.
The waterway has become much more turbulent and harder
to navigate than it once was, and few sailors relish getting
too close to the desolate shore or the dead-gray mist. For
this reason, the city has lost a lot of transportation and cargo
business to Atur as sea captains turn to the Karrn River for
travel inland, then employ cargo caravans to move goods
to Vedykar and farther into the interior.
Rekkenmark (Large City, 14,900): From the halls
of Rekkenmark Academy, one of the premier military
training institutions on the continent, the cliffs that border
both sides of Scions Sound can be seen. The large city of
Rekkenmark has stared into the face of one of Karrnath's
most fervent enemies since the kingdom of Galifar collapsed
and the children of Jarot went to war. Perhaps the
most telling moment of the Last War occurred in 899 YK
when King Kaius I ordered the destruction of the great
White Arch Bridge to prevent an invasion by severing
the passage across the sound. As the massive stone blocks,
181
decorative statues, lightning rail conductor stones, and
distinctive golden arches fell into the sound, the people
of Rekkenmark realized that the Galifar kingdom had
truly come undone. Today, the remains of the shattered
bridge jut out over the cliffs as a stark reminder of both
the connection that once existed and the war that ended
Galifar's dream.
Rekkenmark's history as the training ground for
generals and other military officers goes back to the
second Galifar king (Karrn ir'Wynarn), who dedicated
the facility that eventually became the Rekkenmark
Academy. The city is rich in tradition and old-world
charm, with much of Rekkenmark harkening back to
the glory days of early Galifar. Unfortunately, the city
has also seen its share of death and destruction. Reminders
of the infamous air raid of 874 YK can still be seen,
especially in the cliffside neighborhood of Draco Hill.
Here, a number of buildings remain devastated, riddled
by small boulders dropped from above by wyverns working
with Thrane.
A lightning rail line crosses the Karrn River to
connect Rekkenmark with Korth. In addition, various
trails, paths, and trade roads lead out of the city toward
the interior of the nation. The high, sheer cliffs that
border Scions Sound make access to the waterway almost
impossible, so Rekkenmark has no ports or water traffic to
speak of. A Lyrandar airship mooring tower rises above the
city, though it gets only occasional use, since most airships
head directly to Korth upon crossing Karrnath's borders
from the west or north.
Atur (Large City, 12,600): Also called the City of
Night, Atur sits in the shadow of the Ashen Spires, near
the great Karrn Falls that spill out of the mountains and
flow into the Karrn River. The close peaks of the Ashen
Spires, the constant mist rising off the swirling waters of
the Karrn, and the oppressive brick buildings make for
a place that has relatively short periods of direct daylight
and consequently long nights. But the City of Night was
named more for the fact that the place seems to come alive
when darkness overtakes the land. With the city's temple
to the Blood of Vol (called the Crimson Monastery) and
its massive Vaults of the Dead, where corpse collectors
store the fodder for Karrnath's undead armies, Atur has
a definite connection to the twilight and midnight hours.
A significant portion of the population follows the teachings
of the Blood of Vol and attends the daily rituals in
the Crimson Monastery.
Otherwise, the City of Night has a rhythm and pulse
that seems to increase when the sun goes down. Fest halls,
taverns, theaters, and bordellos of all descriptions open
their doors after dark and stay active until the sun struggles
back up and over the mountains. For many visitors, the city
seems to operate in a way opposite to the other metropolitan
centers of the Five Nations. Everything appears quiet
and deserted by day, but by night the various shops and
businesses open to crowds of people.
King Kaius III maintains Nighthold, a retreat in
Atur. He uses it when he wants to get away from the bustle
of Korth, though he can hold court in the City of Night
if circumstances warrant.
IMPORTANT SITES
History has painted a vibrant portrait across the nation of
Karrnath. Some of the oldest pre-Galifar settlements can
still be found around the Karr n River, and the rich traditions
of the Galifar kingdom can be seen in the architecture
of the nation and the faces of its people. Battles during the
Last War took place on both sides of the Cyre River, across
the ever-shifting border that separated the Karrnat h and
Talenta Plains, and along the Karr n Bay. Karrnathi naval
engagements occurred in Scions Sound, in Karr n Bay,
along the Cyre River, and in Lake Cyre, and the Karrnathi
navy even pushed as far as Eldeen Bay and Lake Brey.
The Nightwood: A dense, shadowy forest that fills
the land between the Karr n and Cyre rivers, the Nightwood
is a forest with two aspects. The outer edge is a royal
huntin g preserve overrun with deer, foxes, and other
small game. Th e deep woods—a tangle of ancient trees
and deadfalls—is a dangerous, mysterious location into
which few dare venture. Monsters and othe r foul creatures
roam the heart of the Nightwood, sometimes slipping
into the more benig n regions and occasionally even
out of the forest to threaten the farms and villages nearest
the forest's edge. Legends claim that a great chasm lies
at the center of the Nightwood, an oozing pit that drops
away to the depths of Khyber itself.
Fort Bones: This outpost guards the borde r that
separates Karrnat h from the Talenta Plains. The fort is
commanded by the Captain of Bones, an honorary title
that comes with knights, a fort and the land around it, and
a legion of skeletal soldiers. An old fort had been in place
here since before the start of the Last War. After it was razed
during the Battle of the Long Night, it was rebuilt using
the bones of Karrnath's enemies. Today, the fort combines
brick and stone with the bones of those who have fallen
fighting against the defenders of Karrnath . The current
Captain of Bones, Berre Stonefist (LN female dwarf, ranger
4), commands a small band of human and dwarf mercenaries
bolstered by almost one hundred Karrnath i skeletons.
Stonefist and her troops guard the southern border and
stay in regular contact with the Captain of Corpses who
commands Fort Zombie to the north.
Lake Dark: The pitch-black waters of Lake Dark shimmer
in the farmland in eastern Karrnath. Fed by the cold
runoff of the Iron River, Lake Dark is a large body of mistshrouded
water that collects in a depression in the fields
between the Icetop Mountains and the Talenta Plains. The
small towns of Lakeside and Irontown flank Lake Dark, and
smaller farming communities encircle it with their various
kinds of crops. Many believe that spirits haunt Lake
Dark, and that the pitch-black waters provide a pathway
to Dolurrh, a location from which the living can sometimes
speak with the dead. Lake Dark is a manifest zone
connected to the realm of the dead, and spells related to
necromancy have greater power when cast in proximity to
its dark, restless waters.
Madstone: Something terrible occurred deep in the
heart of the Icewood shortly after human s first settled
the area. In these cold, norther n woods, one of the first
humans to carry the Mark of Sentinel ventured into the
grip of the Icewood and never came back out. It is said that
182
he came upon a strange, burning crystal that had erupted
from the ground and glowed with a midnight-blue light.
When the dragonmarked human touched the grapefruitsized
dragonshard, he was pulled into its depths, where he
remains to this day. Or so the legend goes.
Today, travelers give one portion of the Icewood a
wide berth, for the weird Khyber dragonshard called the
Madstone has demonstrated a hunger that has called many
unfortunates to it over the centuries. The Madstone has
now grown to the size of a large boulder, and it seems to
get larger with every victim it captures within its dark,
crystalline embrace. The expanding shard continues to
call others to join it; whether cajoled, tricked, or mesmerized,
hundreds of hapless souls have been drawn into the
Madstone, feeding it, making it grow, and stirring their
minds into the jumbled consciousnesses that have merged
in madness within the midnight-blue crystal.
ADVENTURING IN KARRNATH
No hazards or poor roads exist to hamper travel throughout
Karrnath. There are, however, the Karrnath Royal
Swords. This internal national guard patrols the roads
and borders of the kingdom, and woe to the traveler
whose identification papers aren't in order or who angers
or annoys the Royal Swords in any way. They are quick to
arrest or perform corporal or capital punishment in the
name of the crown (the nation is still under martial law,
after all), and they suffer no backtalk or aggravation from
those they stop to question along the roads.
The typical conveniences of the Five Nations can be
found inside Karrnath's borders, including Orien trade
roads, lightning rail stations that connect the nation's cities
with the Mror Holds and the Talenta Plains, and air and sea
ports for House Lyrandar ships. Before the war, the lightning
rail connected Karrnath with western Khorvaire as
well, but those links were severed with the destruction of
Cyre and the collapse of the Golden Arch Bridge.
The people of Karrnath are a dour, untrusting lot who
believe in regiment and order. They are trying to follow the
leadership of their king and offer friendship to the other
nations, but they have a hard time dampening their superior
attitude and the belief that their nation remains the
best and strongest of the remnants of Galifar. They have
little love for the people of Thrane and an outright hatred
for the militaristic elves of Valenar, with whom they still
consider themselves to be at war.
The strict laws and oppressive nature of the country
make it a difficult place for adventurers to thrive. Nevertheless,
those willing to sell sword and spell can be found
in the larger cities, especially Korth, Atur, and Vedykar,
as well as in the border town of Vulyar. While his warlords
have little use for adventurers, King Kaius III sometimes
employs them to handle missions he would rather not trust
to those with ties to the crown (or from which he wishes to
distance himself with "plausible deniability").
ADVENTURE IDEAS
—King Boranel of Breland has placed a special order for
seven wheels of bitter cheese and twelve kegs of Nightwood
ale, but no Sentinel honor guards are available to accompany
the shipment. House Deneith hires adventurers to handle
the job, promising a bonus if the cargo arrives safely and
ahead of schedule so as not to disappoint Breland's king.
—An aspirant hoping to become part of the Twelve
seeks the help of adventurers willing to determine the
weaknesses of her competition. The heroes can help her
attain a seat within the wizard council, or one adventurer
can use the knowledge to make his own play for a position
with the Twelve.
—A well-connected royal corpse collector is suspected
of killing people on the sly to meet quotas and fill the
ranks of Karrnath's undead army. Regent Moranna turns
to independent operatives such as the adventurers to collect
proof that the missing people of Vedykar are ending up in
the corpse collector's assembly of zombies and skeletons.
—The adventurers are detained by the Royal Swords
while traveling without proper documents through Karrnath.
The Captain of the Swords offers them a way out
of the "delicate situation" they find themselves in. Blood
of Vol cultists have been gathering in Lakeside for some
unknown purpose; she wants the heroes to find out what
the cultists are up to and either stop them (if the threat
is imminent) or return with news of their plans. If the
adventurers refuse, the captain promises to send them to
Fort Zombie, where the Captain of Corpses can always use
a few more recruits.