Q'BARRA
Capital: Newthrone
Population: 300,000 (40% lizardfolk, 30% humans, 15%
kobolds, 7% halflings, 3% dwarves, 2% half-elves,
3% other)
Exports: Eberron dragonshards
Languages: Draconic, Common, Riedran
The frontier nation of Q'barra, settled within the past
seventy years and recognized by the Thronehold Accords,
remains a dangerous, unstable place. Even so, more than a
hundred thousand settlers call it home and fight to keep it,
despite the troubles and dangers that surround them.
For centuries, some people put their loyalty to Galifar
above their ties to any single nation. Such folk were traumatized
when the Last War shattered the kingdom they
loved. Among these patriots was Duke Ven ir'Kesslan of
Cyre, who petitioned for and was granted rights to settle
the land east of the Endworld Mountains. Here, in the
jungle peninsula called QJbarra by the Lhazaar pirates
who first discovered it, the Cyran noble envisioned a land
where those who refused to fight their brothers and sisters
and cousins could start a new kingdom based on the ideals
of ancient Galifar.
The settlers formed a huge flotilla of ships of all sizes
and headed out to follow the coast to any hospitable bay
in the Q' bar ran jungle. Drawn from all the Five Nations,
the members of ir'Kesslan's expedition included scholars,
lesser nobles, clergy, and common folk who opposed
the war and saw hope in the duke's plan. After a long
and arduous sea journey, made even more treacherous
due to piracy and war, only four out of every six vessels
that sailed from Cyre reached Adder Bay, where the
exiles established the town that would become Adderport.
Impressed by the beauty of the land and trusting
the mountains and seas to shield them from the ravages
of war, ir'Kesslan vowed his new nation would remain
true to the ideals that held Galifar together for almost a
thousand years.
Over time, the region attracted new settlers—idealists
who shared ir'Kesslan's beliefs and refugees who sought
a safe haven from the war. Some of these later arrivals
included outlaws, war criminals, defeated troops, and,
most recently, displaced Cyrans. Not all these disparate
groups get along. Added to these tensions, the settlers
must deal with the dangers that lurk in the jungle itself.
Duke ir'Kesslan had seen no signs of humans—indeed,
the Lhazaar pirates consider the peninsula cursed—and
assumed Q'barra was uninhabited. He was mistaken.
More than ten thousand years ago, the Dhakaani
Empire drove the lizardfolk of the Talenta Plains across
the Endworld Mountains and into the swamps and jungles
of Q'barra. The lizardfolk dwelt mainly in northern
Q'barra, along the Torva River and in the Basura Swamp.
As the settlers spread throughout the Adder Valley and
into the jungle beyond, they began despoiling lizardfolk
holy sites without realizing it. The poison dusk lizardfolk
took to ambushing settlers, and twenty-nine years ago
the Cold Sun tribes launched an assault on the human
invaders. The settlers, taken by surprise, suffered serious
casualties in the first months of the conflict. Ultimately
the magical skills and superior weapons of the humans
turned the tide, and the lizardfolk retreated to the
northern swamps.
Though truces have been struck and full-scale war
avoided, the settlers of Q'barra must still contend with
hostile lizardfolk, Valenar warbands, Lhazaar raiders,
and kobold marauders from the Endworld Mountains.
Recent discoveries of large deposits of Eberron dragonshards
have brought House Tharashk and a swarm of
prospectors to the region. Tensions among the various
groups of settlers continue to run high, especially with
the arrival of large numbers of Cyran refugees. Aside
from the lizardfolk and kobolds, Q'barra is home to all
manner of dinosaurs, dire and horrid reptiles, and giant
and venomous vermin. Finally, a dark and ancient force
bides its time in the deep jungle, waiting for its moment
to strike.
INDUSTRIES
The greatest resource Q'barra has to offer is its rich
Eberron dragonshard deposits. The jungles also contain
exotic plants with valuable alchemical properties.
While Q'barra has begun to trade these goods to outsiders,
most Q'barrans prefer to avoid contact with what
they consider to be the traitorous successor nations to
old Galifar and instead deal with the Lhazaar princes
and the Inspired.
LIFE AND SOCIETY
The nation of Q'barra contains three distinct communities
of the common races clustered in the Adder Valley
region. The largest and oldest, New Galifar, considers
itself to be the last bastion of the shattered kingdom.
Despite the young nation's humble status, its extremely
proud citizens are suspicious and scornful of travelers
from the West, seeing the inhabitants of the Five
Nations as warmongers and amoral swindlers. Cyre's
fate proves the madness of those who rejected the ways
of Galifar.
The refugees of the Last War—a mix of criminals,
deserters, homesteaders, and the displaced—control an
area they call Hope and only grudgingly accept the authority
of the New Galifar nobles. These refugee villages are
havens for smugglers, prospectors, and renegades. Some
are home to human bandits who blame their depredations
on Valenar elves, lizardfolk, or mountain kobolds. Travelers
are always welcome in a refugee village but would be
wise to watch their backs.
Finally, the Cyran refugees have carved out neighborhoods
in both communities, forming the largest gathering
of the sons and daughters of Cyre outside Breland. Prince
Oargev of New Cyre (see page 148) has made overtures
inviting these Cyrans to join him, but most have decided
to make a go of it in Q'barra.
GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
QJbarra is a feudal nation, following the model of old
Galifar. King Sebastes ir'Kesslan, grandson of the
194
settlement's founder, rules from the port city of Newthrone.
Q'barra is also a frontier nation. Justice and its
dispensation falls to the local lord or magistrate, who
administers it swiftly and often harshly—especially where
outsiders are concerned.
Q'barra's relations with its neighbors have been
tumultuous. Warbands from Valenar have recently become
a serious threat. Lhazaar marauders plague the coast,
although King Sebastes seeks to reach agreements with the
Lhazaar princes to end these raids. Q'barra participated
in the peace talks at Thronehold to secure recognition
of its sovereignty, even though the leaders of the frontier
nation have little love for the Five Nations. Accordingly,
they have made overtures to the new nations, especially the
Mror Holds and the Lhazaar Principalities.
Beyond the nations of Khorvaire, the last decade has
seen increasingly strong ties between Q'barra and the
Inspired lords of Riedra. The Inspired have flattered the
king, entered into a number of trade agreements and treaties,
and even sent troops to help defend their Q'barran
ally. Currently these garrisons are quite small, but the
Inspired promise additional troops if New Galifar should
require them.
New Galifar mostly ignores the refugee communities,
only dealing with them if necessary. For this reason, law
has little place in the villages within Hope.
POWER GROUPS
Founded in the midst of the Last War and shielded by
the Endworld Mountains, Q'barra has few outside power
groups. The two halfling dragonmarked houses, Jorasco
and Ghallandra, have longstanding connections in the
region and are always welcome for the services they provide.
House Sivis, House Kundarak, and House Orien are
all currently in the process of establishing basic services
in the major Q'barran settlements.
New Galifar: The community descended from the
original settlers who followed Ven ir'Kesslan to Q'barra,
New Galifar is the heart of the recently recognized
Q'barran nation. Led by the grandson of the community's
founder, New Galifar believes that it protects and promotes
the spirit of ancient Galifar. King Sebastes rules
over a feudal society with the help of a small number of
noble families. Highly organized, well stocked, and with
ties throughout the Five Nations (despite their disdain
for the idea of a shattered Galifar), King Sebastes and
his nobles struggle to tame the wilderness and build a
land where their dream of a unified Galifar can grow and
flourish. With lizardfolk on one side, refugee communities
on the other, and a variety of external threats (both
obvious and insidious), New Galifar has its work cut out
for it.
House Tharashk: The House of Finding, hungry to
exploit the natural resources of Q'barra, has found little
interest among the New Galifar nobles in establishing trade
with the west. The local family leader, Khalar d'Tharashk
(NE male human expert 2/rogue 4/dragonmark heir 2),
is an avaricious opportunist, seeking prospecting and
trading rights with one hand while running smuggling
operations with the other.
Blackscale Lizardfolk: The blackscale lizardfolk, largest
and strongest of their kind (Large lizardfolk, HD 4d8+8,
resistance to acid 5), live in the jungles around Haka'torvhak.
As the chosen warriors of the dragon Rhashaak, they bully
and dominate the lesser lizardfolk. They are hostile to the
common races.
The Dreaming Dark: The Inspired see Q'barra as
a strong foothold on the shores of Khorvaire. Their diplomatic
relations with the court of Newthrone have provided
them with a source of Eberron dragonshards and
a base for troops in the region. Agents of the Devourer
of Dreams may engineer (through dreams and omens)
another conflict with the lizardfolk, the Lhazaar pirates,
or the Valenar raiders to encourage King ir'Kesslan to
request more Riedran troops.
The Lords of Dust: The rakshasas recently discovered
the true nature of Haka'torvhak, and now the fiends wish
to reclaim the ancient city. Because of ancient enchantments,
they can't enter the city while its draconic guardian
lives. So, with the patience of immortals, they set plans in
motion to destroy Rhashaak.
Rhashaak: For over a million years, black dragons
have stood watch over the ancient city of Haka'torvhak. Over
untold generations, the dark powers imprisoned beneath the
city have infected the draconic line. The current guardian,
an unholy wyrm named Rhashaak (NE male half-fiend black
dragon wyrm), despite his power, is himself a prisoner. The
same energies that bind the fiends beneath Haka'torvhak
prevent the half-fiendish Rhashaak from venturing more
than twenty miles from the city. Despite his evil nature
and delusions of godhood, Rhashaak holds to his duties as
guardian of the city. Worshiped by the blackscale lizardfolk
and the poison dusk lizardfolk, Rhashaak hopes their
devotion will ultimately allow him to transcend physical
existence and join the Dark Six.
Poison Dusk Lizardfolk: These pygmy lizardfolk pose
a considerable threat to the common races that inhabit the
region. Living in small clans scattered throughout northern
Q'barra, they are dedicated to Rhashaak and see the
settlers as defilers. Poison dusk lizardfolk (Small lizardfolk,
3D 1d8 + 1, poisoned weapons, +5 racial bonus on Hide
checks) prefer to avoid their Cold Sun cousins but respect
the blackscales as the chosen warriors of Haka'torvhak.
The Cold Sun Tribes: The Cold Sun Tribes are
a federation of common lizardfolk spread across the
north and east of the nation. The tribes are twenty-four
in number, but only seven border the territory of the
settlers. While each tribe has different customs, all are
bound by ancient tradition. Lizardfolk attitudes toward
the common races vary considerably. Most fear and distrust
humans. However, one tribe, the Twilight Walkers,
is willing to work with the settlers, serving as ambassadors
between the tribes and the interlopers. Twilight Walkers
often visit Jarot and Newthrone.
While the Cold Sun Tribes outnumber the blackscales,
the large lizardfolk use their size and their connection
to the dragon Rhashaak to intimidate their smaller
cousins. Factions among the Cold Sun Tribes wish to overthrow
the blackscales, and the Lords of Dust are fanning
those flames.
195
RELIGION
The original settlers brought the faiths of the Silver Flame
and the Sovereign Host with them to Q'barra. Within the
Sovereign Host, Aureon and Boldrei receive the most
devotion, but all the deities have followers. Virtually any
faith known in Khorvaire can be found in one or more of
the refugee communities.
MAJOR SETTLEMENTS
Two major regions have been settled by the common races
in Q'barra: New Galifar and Hope. Both these regions
have recently become home to new communities of Cyran
refugees. Newthrone, the capital, serves as the nucleus
for a number of other towns. Given the many dangers of
the realm, human communities smaller than towns don't
exist in New Galifar. Villages and hamlets are simply too
susceptible to attack, a lesson the early settlers learned at
a high cost.
In Hope, however, such rules don't apply. The refugee
villages scattered along the base of the Endworld Mountains
are not fortified and thus easily overwhelmed by a
wave of kobold or lizardfolk violence. Over the course
of a year, villages will fall and be rebuilt in the same
general vicinity.
Newthrone (Large City, 23,260): Aport city on the
mouth of the Whitecliff River, where the river empties into
Adder Bay, Newthrone is the largest city in Q'barra. It is
also the seat of government for King Sebastes ir'Kesslan
(LG male human, aristocrat 4/ranger 1) and the community
of New Galifar. Like all New Galifar communities,
Newthrone is heavily fortified; over the past thirty
years, it has repelled multiple attacks by Lhazaar pirates
and the lizardfolk of the Gold Sun Tribes. While the city
contains outposts devoted to many of the dragonmarked
houses, more travelers and merchants hail from the
Lhazaar Principalities and Riedra than from the inland
nations of Khorvaire. Although not as grand and full of
history as the great cities of the Five Nations, Newthrone
has been built to replicate the architecture of old Galifar.
In some ways, it looks like a small portion of Cyre or
Breland has been picked up, polished, and dropped in the
Q'barran jungle.
Wyrmwatch (Village, 452): The largest of the refugee
villages scattered throughout the region of Q'barra
called Hope, Wyrmwatch has remained relatively intact
for almost three years. Perhaps that's why it continues to
grow; its more or less permanent nature attracts those
arriving in Q'barra who aren't interested in the ideals
of New Galifar, as well as those from other villages
looking for a safer place to live. Elder Nevillom (LN male
human, fighter 2/cleric 3 Silver Flame), a veteran of the
Last War and a Silver Flame evangelist, serves as the
nominal leader of the village. His combat experience
and fiery preaching style make him colorful, commanding,
and dangerous. He holds to many of the more
puritannical tenets of the faith—doctrines that have
largely been abandoned by the Silver Flame temples in
the Five Nations.
Ka'rhashan (Small City, 10,600): The largest lizardfolk
community in Q'barra, located in the deep jungle
along the Crimson River, Ka'rhashan is a gathering point
for the Cold Sun Tribes. Once every five years, a ritual
war determines which tribe controls the city. Ka'rhashan
contains the longhuts and partially submerged lodges
common to all lizardfolk communities, but the central
city is a fantastic place of stone and brass that seems far
beyond the ability of lizardfolk architects. In fact, the current
inhabitants renovated ruins from the Age of Demons
and built their city around them. No rakshasa rajah lies
buried beneath the city, but there may be secrets waiting
to be discovered in the sealed vaults of Ka'rhashan.
The city includes a score of temples dedicated to the draconic
religion of the lizardfolk and an enormous arena
for intertribal contests and games. Any member of the
common races who enters Ka'rhashan had best have a
silver tongue or a lizardfolk guide to avoid ending up in
that arena.
IMPORTANT SITES
Q'barra is the only nation other than the Demon Wastes
that contains relatively intact ruins from the Age of
Demons—and with far fewer fiends and fiendish beasts
guarding them here than in the Wastes. Most of these
ruins have been worn down by time and devoured by the
jungle, but a few remain whole and undisturbed. Sites
sacred to the lizardfolk are also scattered across the realm,
many marked with the bones of dragons. Some of these are
simple shrines; others may be haunted by spectral dinosaurs
or occupied by undead lizardfolk priests.
Haka'torvhak: Carved into the side of an enormous
volcano, the ancient city of Haka'torvhak—"the throne of
the holy dragons"—serves as the center of the Q'barran
lizardfolk religion. In the Age of Demons, it was one of the
great citadels of the fiends and the site of a massive battle
between the fiends and the dragons. In the end, the most
powerful fiends were bound in the fires deep beneath
the city and draconic guardians were left to watch over
the place for eternity. The current guardian, the black
dragon Rhashaak, has been corrupted by his post but
remains bound to his duty.
A stunning metropolis of brass and volcanic glass,
Haka'torvhak extends deep into the volcano behind
it. Powerful magic shields the city from the threat of
an eruption, but smoke still rises from the mountain
peak. Rhashaak's blackscale lizardfolk guardians live
in the jungle around the base of Haka'torvhak, but
only priests, sacred warriors, and living sacrifices are
allowed into the city to gaze upon the countenance of
the living god. The city contains a vast hoard of treasure
assembled from millennia of sacrifices to the dragon
guardians, as well as hidden artifacts from ancient
times. In addition to the blackscale lizardfolk and the
black dragon, a wide range of half-fiend and half-dragon
creatures spawned over the centuries protect the city and
its treasures, not to mention dinosaurs, lesser fiends, and
other foul beasts.
ADVENTURING IN Q'BARRA
Q'barra is a nation filled with mysteries and constant conflict.
The refugee villages are lawless communities where
196
anything can happen. The Valenar elves pose a threat to
the west; Lhazaar raiders provide danger from the east
and all along the coast. Kobolds raid down from the
mountains, and lizardfolk remain a menace throughout
the realm. Q'barra has the only significant Riedran presence
on the continent, but ir'Kesslan's Inspired allies are
treacherous beyond his imagining. Not only the Dreaming
Dark (see page 240) but also the Aurum and House Tharashk
have designs on this fledgling nation.
Many other forces could draw adventurers to the
frontier. Treasures abound in the wilds, including Eberron
dragonshards and relics from the Age of Demons.
The Chamber (see page 229) or the Lords of Dust (see
page 242) may have plans involving Haka'torvhak and the
wyrm Rhashaak. The Wayfinder Foundation (see page
247) could sponsor expeditions to explore the ruins or
recover deadly artifacts stolen by bandits or scavengers.
And adventurers in search of a diversion can always hunt
(and be hunted by) dinosaurs.
ADVENTURE IDEAS
—A dying bandit holds a map to a treasure buried
near one of the refugee villages of Q'barra, but the village
contains a host of cutthroats who are seeking the treasure
themselves and will be suspicious of any strangers.
—The Order of the Emerald Claw has sent a mad wizard
to raise an army of dracoliches from the battlefields of the
Age of Demons.
—The draconic Prophecy calls for a relic to be
recovered from the vaults of Haka'torvhak, and the
Prophecy specifies that the thieves must avoid all contact
with Rhashaak. The Chamber anonymously approaches
adventurers to fulfill this part of the Prophecy, without
telling them their actions might relate to omens, portents,
or dragons.
—A critical informant fled to Q'barra a year ago to
hide among the lawless refugee villages. Can she be found?
Is she still alive? If not, did she pass her information along
to someone else?
—The Wayfinder Foundation, the Aurum, and the
Dreaming Dark all seek a relic from the Age of Demons.
But the artifact is in Ka'rhashan, and it is only brought
out during the great gathering of the twenty-four tribes.
—Elder Nevillom of Wyrmwatch declares that the
Silver Flame has shown him the Inquisition must start
again. Shifters must be driven from the land, the elder
says, and those who refuse must be put to the stake and the
flame. Adventurers may be targeted by the elder's wrath
because of a shifter among their number, or they may be
drawn in when a frightened shifter seeks their protection
from Nevillom and his zealous followers.
—A noble in New Galifar seeks adventurers to protect
her settlement from marauding lizardfolk, unaware that
the settlers have inadvertently expanded their village into
a sacred lizardfolk burial ground in the jungl