GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
Each halfling tribe follows a tradition that all tribal members
are equals. Even so, each tribe selects a leader based on merit
and ability, a leader referred to as a lath. The lath directs
the activities of his or her tribe, commanding the respect
and subservience of the members of the tribe. As equals, all
members of the tribe can offer suggestions and voice opinions,
but they agree that the final call always falls to their
lath. If the lath loses the respect and confidence of his or her
tribe, the tribe will select a new lath to lead them.
Tribal members are tied by blood and tradition,
but even so, some tribes disband and merge at regular
intervals, and sometimes a powerful lath might attract a
number of tribes to his banner. Such a leader is called a
lathon. Over the generations, a few mighty lathons have
gathered the tribes together for massive undertakings,
such as when Lathon Uldom united the tribes to repel
human invaders some two thousand years ago. More
recently, Lathon Halpum negotiated to end the Last War
and create the sovereign nation of the Talenta Plains.
Halpum still carries the grand title, but more as an honorary
post than as a ruler—he continues to oversee his
own tribe, one of the largest in the Plains, but he doesn't
command the other laths.
Many of the dragonmarked houses operate in the Plains.
House Ghallanda maintains its primary headquarters in
Gatherhold, and serves as custodian of the shared city for
the halfling tribes. Other dragon-marked houses with
prominent operations here include the houses of Orien,
Deneith, Jorasco, and Vadalis.
POWER GROUPS
While the Talenta Plains may appear as disorganized and
as close to collapse as either Darguun or the Lhazaar Principalities,
the region really has more in common with the
Mror Holds as far as stability is concerned. The traditions
of the tribes and the great influence of two longstanding
dragonmarked houses make the nation strong despite its
decentralized government. A few of the power groups currently
operating in the Plains are described below.
Lathon Halpum: Lathon Halpum (CG male halfling,
barbarian 9) leads one of the largest nomadic tribes
wandering the Talenta Plains. So great is the respect that
the other laths feel for Halpum that they selected him to
represent all the tribes at the Thronehold peace talks. At
the talks, he was able to obtain status and recognition for
the Talenta Plains, and he returned triumphantly to share
the news at a gathering of laths in Gatherhold. Since then,
Halpum has returned to leading his own tribe, a powerful
group of almost one thousand halflings that roam the
Plains. As a battle-rider in his younger days, and as a lath
leading halfling warbands during the Last War, Halpum
knows the value of military might. He keeps his tribe fit
and well trained, for the dangers of the Last War still
haunt the Plains. If the skirmishes with Valenar escalate,
or if the fragile peace keeping the Five Nations in check
breaks, the other laths would once again turn to Halpum
204
for leadership. Next time, he might decide to unite all the
tribes for the safety of the nation.
Holy Uldra: Holy Uldra (NE female halfling, cleric
7 Balinor) serves as lath to a small but powerful tribe of
approximately eighty halflings. She believes that she has
been chosen by the God of Beasts and the Hunt to lead the
halflings back to the traditions and values they have abandoned
(at least in her eyes). Members of all tribes come
to hear the charismatic cleric preach whenever she attends
a gathering of tribes or visits Gatherhold. She has not yet
begun to overtly challenge the notion of a unified halfling
nation, but her exhortations intimate that following the
path of the Five Nations is wrong and goes against the spirits
of their tribal ancestors and the beasts with which they share
the Plains. She also rails against the dragonmarked houses
for abandoning the ancient traditions of the tribes.
Holy Uldra has the ability to cause trouble in the
Plains, and her own ambitions as a prophet and chief
could spread that trouble into the nations beyond. Some
foreign powers, recognizing this potential destabilizing
point in the Talenta Plains, have begun exploring ways to
take advantage of the situation. The Royal Eyes of Aundair,
for example, see Holy Uldra as a means for eventually
striking at Karrnath, and so their agents have started
making overtures to the cleric and her tribe.
House Ghallanda: The halfling House of Hospitality
arose on the Talenta Plains and has been operating from
among the nomadic tribes ever since. The patriarch of
the house, Yoren d'Ghallanda (GG male halfling, expert
3/bard 4), keeps the fires burning in Gatherhold so that
there's always a welcome waiting for the wandering halfling
tribes. Beyond that, he oversees the operations of house
agents throughout Khorvaire from the Ghallanda Inn at
the center of Gatherhold. His opulent and resplendent
enclave grows out of the inn and is one of the largest permanent
structures in the town.
House Jorasco: The halflings of House Jorasco maintain
a prominent presence in the Plains, but the House
of Healing long ago moved its headquarters to Karrnath
to better serve all of Khorvaire. For this reason, House
Jorasco sometimes meets with suspicion and opposition in
the Plains, especially from Holy Uldra and her followers.
Even so, the cosmopolitan and widely traveled halflings of
the house continue to exert influence among the tribes
of the halfling nation.
RELIGION
Most of the halflings of the Talenta Plains combine ancestral
and animal spirit worship with ceremonies devoted to
Balinor, God of Beasts and the Hunt.
MAJOR SETTLEMENTS
The Talenta Plains have almost no settlements—major or
minor. The halflings of the Plains are nomads who carry
their shelters with them as they follow their wanderlust.
There are a number of Karrnathi forts, as well as one
permanent halfling settlement—Gatherhold.
Gatherhold (Large Town, 2,300): The large town
of Gatherhold, built into the rocky outcroppings and hills
along the eastern shore of Lake Cyre, is a shared town.
All the halfling tribes can use it. The tribes come to the
town to trade, hold celebrations, attend tribal councils, or
find protection from the elements or hostile forces. House
Ghallanda maintains the town and keeps a presence there
even when all the tribes are away.
IMPORTANT SITES
The Talenta Plains have a number of important sites. Here
are some of them.
Krezent: This ancient ruin is all that remains of a
couatl city from ages past. The halflings tend to avoid the
site, since it is home to a tribe of benevolent yuan-ti who
honor and revere the couatl and the Silver Flame.
The Boneyard: Tucked into a valley formed where
the Ironroot Mountains meet the Endworld Mountains,
the Boneyard contains the ancient remains of colossal
dragons. Bones jut from the ground like ivory trees and
carpet the floor as thick as deadfalls in a forest. Whether
these dragons died in long-forgotten battles or once used
this desolate site as a graveyard of sorts, the halflings
believe the place is cursed. Indeed, legends claim that
to disturb the bones of the dead draws the attention of
the living—and no one wants to attract the attention of a
living dragon.
The Wandering Inn: House Ghallanda's Wandering
Inn is a traveling fair that moves around the Plains. One
day the colorful tents appear beside Lake Gyre, later they
spring up on the steppes near the Ironroot Mountains.
The Wandering Inn provides a place for rest and trade for
the tribes that range far from Gatherhold.
ADVENTURING IN
THE TALENTA PLAINS
The Talenta Plains are vast and wild. Travelers can
wander for days without seeing another living creature.
Then, without warning, they can find themselves in a
dinosaur stampede or surrounded by a tribe of halflings.
In general, the halflings don't harass travelers unless the
travelers show hostile intent. Still, the wilderness can
be dangerous, with predatory dinosaurs, Valenar elf
marauders, and other threats ranging from the mundane
to the supernatural.
ADVENTURE IDEAS
—Someone is stealing dinosaur eggs and interfering
with the halfling rites of adulthood. When a bonded
dinosaur is set free to mate in the wild, it falls to the
next generation of halflings to capture and tame the
brood that emerges from the freshly hatched eggs. With
the recent thefts of the eggs, the ancient system of perpetuating
the dinosaur bond is in jeapordy. A tribe or
halfling house friendly with the adventurers asks for
help in this matter.
—Rumors suggest that a powerful undead dragon has
been seen in the Boneyard.
—Someone has planted potent dinosaur musk among
the supplies the adventurers carry. Now they must make
it out of the Plains before the carnivorous dinosaurs,
attracted by the scent, overwhelm them.
205
THRANE
Capital: Flamekeep
Population: 2,300,000 (70% human, 10% half-elf, 9%
dwarf, 4% elf, 4% halfling, 3% other)
Exports: Fine crafts, wool, textiles, missionaries, fruit,
livestock
Languages: Common, Draconic, Dwarven, Elven,
Halfling
The spirit of the Silver Flame took hold of the hearts
and souls of the people of Thrane seven hundred years
ago, and this religious fervor remains the driving force
behind the nation. Thrane was one of the original Five
Nations founded by the human settlers of Khorvaire; the
culture and heritage of the region goes back millennia. It
was absorbed into the Kingdom of Galifar and remained
a pillar of that celebrated kingdom for almost a thousand
years. While the rest of the Five Nations followed the tenets
of the Sovereign Host, a new religion found life in Thrane
before spreading far and wide across Khorvaire. In the
wake of the Last War, Thrane stands as a theocracy devoted
to the Silver Flame.
Thrane ir'Wynarn, third scion of King Galifar I, was
appointed to oversee the nation that would eventually carry
his name shortly after his father united the kingdom. As
with the other nations, the name was changed to match
that of its regent by popular decree in 32 YK. Thrane,
and the greater kingdom to which it belonged, prospered
as the decades grew into centuries.
In 299 YK, the event that started the religion of the
Silver Flame took place. In that year, a terrible eruption
split the ground and a great pillar of crimson fire emerged
from the resulting chasm. No one understood the significance
of the blazing column of flame, but most who
dared approach it felt unrelenting malevolence in its
radiating heat.
Tira Miron, a paladin dedicated to Dol Arrah, received
a powerful vision about this strange fire while exploring
the western reaches of the realm. In her vision, a
great rainbow-winged serpent warned her that a terrible
evil was emerging in the east, riding crimson fire from
the depths of Khyber itself. Tira rallied the forces of
Thrane and defeated the dark creatures that had come
to venerate the crimson fire and help free the malevolent
entity trapped within its flames. With her great sword
Kloinjer, its pommel capped with a Khyber dragonshard,
Tira turned to face the emerging demon just as the great
serpent with the rainbow-feathered wings of her vision
appeared and dove headfirst into the fire. Tira watched as
the serpent and the demon struggled in the flames. The
battle within the fire seemed to last for an eternity, and
as she watched the demon began to overcome the serpent.
Horrified, she saw the demon strike a crippling blow. The
serpent, calling on its last reserves of power, encircled the
demon and buried its fangs into the fiend's fiery throat.
At the same moment, it sent a mental plea to Tira, and the
paladin didn't hesitate. She leaped into the fire, plunging
Kloinjer through the writhing serpent and deep into the
demon's flesh.
Then, the legend says, a powerful explosion rocked
the entire kingdom of Galifar. The hot crimson fire
became a cool silver flame. Tira remained within, now
part of the divine fire that had replaced the evil conflagration.
She became the Voice of the Silver Flame, and a new
religion was born. Flamekeep, a simple stone castle, was
erected around the everburning pillar of silver fire. Deep
within the chasm, at the point where the fire erupts from
the earth, it is said that mighty Kloinjer's blade is buried
almost to the hilt, binding demon, serpent, and paladin
together forever.
In time, the castle became a cathedral, and a city grew
around it. By 400 YK, the Church of the Silver Flame was
the dominant religion in Thrane. The Sovereign Host,
accepting of most faiths, saw the Silver Flame as just
another expression of the divine pantheon on Eberron.
The Silver Flame, on the other hand, tolerated the Host
but had little love for faiths that didn't accept the cleansing
light of the Silver Flame.
Over the centuries, the kings and queens of Galifar,
and their sons and daughters who governed the Thrane
realm, have had a mixed relationship with the faith of the
Silver Flame. As the Thrane people began to turn to this
faith in droves, the royal family was forced to accept the
Church of the Silver Flame as a force within the kingdom.
Early on, they tried to restrict it to Thrane, but the
faithful were zealous, and missionaries soon appeared to
bring word of the Silver Flame to the rest of Khorvaire.
More than one scion over the centuries, while governing
in Thrane, adopted the faith. One particularly dark episode
occurred in 558 YK, when Queen Joliana reached the
throne after serving as Thrane's regent. She was a devoted
follower of the Silver Flame, and decided that under her
rule all of Galifar would accept the Silver Flame as the one
true religion. A few bloody clashes almost led to civil war
before Joliana died suddenly and mysteriously before the
second year of her reign had ended.
When Jarot died and the scions broke with tradition
and started the Last War, Thalin of Thrane saw another
opportunity to spread the Silver Flame to the entire
kingdom. While the other scions had more personal or
philosophical reasons for refusing to honor the traditional
rights of succession, Thalin believed that he had
a divine right to the crown. This tendency on the part
of Thrane to place itself above the rest of the shattered
kingdom led to some of the most terrible battles of the
Last War.
In 914 YK, with the death of King Thalin, Thrane's
people rejected Thalin's heir's claim to the throne and
turned to the Church of the Silver Flame for leadership.
Thrane became a theocracy. The Keeper of the Flame,
the head of the Church of the Silver Flame, took control
of the temporal as well as the spiritual reins of the nation.
This turn of events has led to tensions that go beyond
the nation's borders, as the leaders of the remaining
Five Nations see the mingling of church with crown as
unnatural and potentially dangerous to their own plans
and ambitions.
Today, Jaela Daran serves as the Keeper of the
Flame. She assumed power when she was six years old,
206
identified by the Silver Flame as the successor to the
church's previous Keeper. Now eleven years old, Jaela
helped guide Thrane through the peace talks and has
developed into a caring and forceful leader despite her
young age. It isn't unusual for a Keeper so young to be
selected, but it hasn't happened since the nation became
a theocracy.
War remains a primary preoccupation for the
nation of Thrane. To Jaela's advisors and the other leaders
within the theocracy, the current peace presents a
chance to rest and prepare for future conflict. Until
all nations have accepted the Silver Flame, there will
always be enemies at their borders waiting to exploit the
first show of weakness or hesitation. Jaela believes that,
with the exception of wiping out true evil, war is a futile
endeavor. The Silver Flame doesn't call for war; indeed,
she believes that the Flame is saddened by the conflict
that has pitted brother against brother. Her power within
the theocracy isn't as ironclad as some believe, however,
and she has learned to negotiate her course carefully and
with much deliberation. As long as most of the spiritual
and secular leaders of Thrane want war, the best Jaela can
hope to accomplish is to delay the start for another day,
week, or year.
INDUSTRIES
Thrane has attempted to develop a closed economy since
the start of the Last War that allows it to rely on itself and
not require goods or services from beyond its own borders.
The Thranes have not been entirely successful. They
continue to make use of the services of the dragonmarked
houses, and some amount of trade occurs between this
nation and its neighbors.
Thrane exports wool and textiles, some fruits, livestock,
and fine crafts. Perhaps the most prominent export
of Thrane is the missionaries of the Silver Flame. The
followers of the Flame tenaciously promote their faith
throughout the Five Nations and beyond. Most preach a
tolerant version of the faith, but some zealous missionaries
see little difference between true evil and those religions
that don't venerate the Silver Flame.
LlFE AND SOCIETY
Thrane's citizenry consists of farmers, clerics, adepts, and
a city-dwelling middle class. Most of the metropolitan
centers are clustered in the eastern portion of the nation,
along the waterways that empty into Scions Sound. Central
and western Thrane feature mostly open fields, forests,
and rolling farmland.
Religion, primarily the tenets of the Church of
the Silver Flame, dominates life in the nation. In
many towns and cities, devout followers of the Silver
Flame outnumber the rest of the population, and in
places such as Flamekeep they constitute an even larger
majority. In the smaller villages and outlying hamlets
and thorps, roughly half of the townsfolk are active
church members.
The Church of the Silver Flame is of two minds
when it comes to doctrine and practices: the dominant,
more or less tolerant side, embodied by the Keeper of
the Flame and her bishops and priests; and the small but
vocal minority who fervently follow the Voice of the Silver
Flame and take every pronouncement to its literal and
extremely intolerant conclusion. On one hand, the church
has developed into one of the strongest pillars of lawful
good virtues in the world. On the other hand, its fanatical
side has inspired inquisitions, crusades, and some of the
worst atrocities ever committed in the name of a lawful
good deity.
The. Church of the Silver Flame influences everyday
life across Thrane. Rituals, ceremonies, and codes of
conduct inspired by the Voice of the Silver Flame direct
the actions of the nation and its inhabitants. Even those
few living in or visiting Thrane who don't subscribe to
the tenets of the faith must deal with its ramifications.
Priests and devout followers gather three times a day to
celebrate the Mass of Silver Fire, and the faith starts every
week with the Day of Cleansing Fire—a daylong devotion
that includes prayer, fasting, and a recitation of the Nine
Miracles of the Silver Flame performed in the Draconic
tongue. During these various rituals and ceremonies, most
nonessential activities in the nation stop so that everyone
can meditate and reflect on the power and glory of the
Silver Flame.
The cities and towns of Thrane witnessed a proliferation
of art and architecture designed to pay homage and
glorify the Silver Flame. Between 325 YK and 700 YK,
the Flamic style was pioneered and perfected. Visions of
the Silver Flame and Tira Miron dominated the work of
painters and sculptors, and later prominent and influential
Keepers of the Flame also began to be immortalized
in artwork. Architects, meanwhile, used light and soaring
spaces to symbolize the nation's devotion to the Silver
Flame. Such construction techniques give the urban centers
of Thrane a distinct religious look and are unparalleled
anywhere else in Khorvaire, a style and presence that
constantly reminds the population that Thrane worships
the Silver Flame.
The relatively few people in Thrane society who aren't
religious or who happen to follow a faith other than the
Silver Flame (the Sovereign Host still has a few worshipers
in Thrane) experience more than a few hurdles as
they seek to find happiness and prosperity in the nation.
While not overtly persecuted or ostracized, those who don't
proclaim the faith of the Silver Flame as their own find
closed doors, confining fences, and low ceilings in their
path more often than not.
The average priest or practitioner of the Silver Flame
holds his faith supreme over all others, but doesn't necessarily
ridicule or attack the beliefs of others. Only truly
evil cults and creatures, usually those associated with the
ancient demons that were long ago sealed away by powers
related to the Silver Flame, come under the direct assault
of the average follower of the Silver Flame. These followers
might inadvertently and subconsciously promote their
own faith and those who keep it above others, but not in
any overt and conscious manner. The fervent Flamers,
however, although few in number, vocally and with great
hostility attack every philosophy and outlook that doesn't
bask in the glow of the Silver Flame.
GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
The royal family and secular authority of the crown has
been replaced in Thrane by a theocracy in league with the
Church of the Silver Flame. The Keeper of the Flame,
currently eleven-year-old Jaela Daran (LG female human,
cleric 3 Silver Flame, cleric 18 in the confines of Flamekeep),
sits on both the spiritual and worldly thrones of
the nation. The Council of Cardinals aids the Keeper
in overseeing the functions of government and church.
Both secular and religious authorities follow a reporting
structure atop which sit the Cardinals, who in turn report
to the Keeper of the Flame. Archbishops serve as governors
and mayors throughout the realm, while bishops and
archpriests run individual cathedrals and churches within
Thrane and abroad. For more information on Jaela and
the Church, see page 229.
The secular nobles who once paid homage to the
royal family and provided taxes and troops to the crown
continue to serve the theocracy. Those noble families who
strictly embrace the tenets of the Silver Flame have risen
to the top of the secular order, while those with weaker ties
or even other faiths have lost power, influence, and even
position over the years.
The royal family remains in place, serving merely
as a figurehead in present-day Thrane. The current
heir to the crown, Diani ir'Wynarn (NG female human,
aristocrat 4), smiles and appears at the Keeper's side as